Title: Nike slashes 1,400 more jobs as its stock crashes 70% from pandemic highs — and the real reason isn't 'woke' marketing
Date: 2026-05-02 10:35
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/nike-slashes-1-400-more-103500902.html?.tsrc=rss

Oops, something went wrong Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Spirit Airlines is gone. Here are the low-cost airlines filling the gap. Court documents show Musk warned OpenAI execs they would become 'the most hated men in America' days before the trial began Palantir beats earnings expectations, with revenue rising 85% on booming US business Dow, S&P 500, Nasdaq drop, oil surges as Middle East attacks escalate GameStop’s CEO dodged questions on funding the deal, leaving investors uneasy Dow sags while S&P 500, Nasdaq waver as Hormuz tensions rise Why trade deficits under Trump are so difficult to understand (and so easy to spin) Buying record highs looks riskier in the Nasdaq and Russell 2000 than in the broader market Would a gas tax holiday lower prices? What drivers should know. Wall Street sees more market gains as strong earnings fuel the AI trade The April jobs report and more major first quarter results await investors this week. April added roughly $1.2 trillion to Alphabet’s market value, or just over 50 times Google’s IPO valuation. Toto Wolff on Mercedes F1's dominant start, the 'outstanding' Kimi Antonelli, and why vulnerability is a leader's 'superpower' The average cost of college in 2026 (and how to pay for it) Network shakeups hit Medicare Advantage, forcing retirees to pay up or find new care Jerome Powell's Fed years were an everything rally The Iran War almost upended spring homebuying, but so far the market is showing 'surprising resilience' Berkshire Hathaway's profits double as shareholders gather for the annual meeting in Omaha (Associated Press) Bankrupt carrier Spirit Airlines ceased operations Saturday, the industry's first closure linked to the Iran war. If Spirit Airlines shuts down, travel chaos could ramp up. Here's how to protect your summer travel plans. The S&P 500 and Nasdaq jumped to record highs as the AI trade fueled a tech rally The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq advanced after hitting record highs as earnings rolled in Apple's earnings beat is part of an amazing trend AI developers are snapping up Mac minis, sparking a shortage that could drag on for months Apple beats earnings estimates on strong iPhone and China sales Dow jumps 750 points, S&P 500 and Nasdaq notch record highs to end the best month for stocks since 2020 The AI earnings bonanza is splitting investors Trump bets Hormuz blockade will break Iran before triggering a global crisis US stocks climb as economic updates, solid earnings roll in and Big Techs buoy AI hopes Nvidia has powered one third of the Mag 7's bull market gains Results from four Big Tech companies showed combined AI spending reaching an eye-popping $725 billion this year. Microsoft tops earnings estimates, says AI business up 123% year over year Meta stock falls despite earnings beat as AI spending plans spook investors Alphabet earnings top estimates on strong Google Cloud growth The Dow and S&P 500 slipped as oil surged, with Big Tech earnings on deck Powell will stay on as governor, says he has no choice amid legal attacks on Fed Powell holds what is expected to be his final press conference as chair after the Fed keeps rates steady Fed holds interest rates steady with no end to Iran war in sight Elon Musk testified again in the OpenAI trial, describing his behavior at the company and its nonprofit 'halo' A Senate committee confirmed Kevin Warsh, sending his nomination to be chairman of the Fed to the full Senate Stocks slipped at the open as investors awaited a Fed decision and Big Tech earnings The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq dropped as chip stocks sank and oil rose S&P 500 and Nasdaq sink, Dow rises as OpenAI-linked stocks falter and UAE exits OPEC The United Arab Emirates will leave OPEC+ effective May 1 The only number that matters for 'Magnificent 7' earnings this week The S&P 500 and Nasdaq notched fresh records, while oil edged higher as markets weighed Iran peace odds Gasoline prices are expected to turn higher as oil holds above $100 per barrel amid uncertainty over the US-Iran war US stocks open mixed as markets brace for a big week of Big Tech earnings. The rapid run-up in chip stocks has reignited the AI trade as the S&P 500 and Nasdaq sit at record highs. Americans are feeling less confident about their retirement savings. Here are some of the best ways to get started early. Depending on who you ask, Nike (NYSE:NKE) is either in a heap of trouble or slowly steadying the ship after the John Donahoe era (1) — a time when the company lacked innovation and focused too heavily on building out direct-to-consumer (DTC) sales. The sneaker giant's share price is currently down more than 70% from its high in 2021 during the pandemic. Nike shares are currently trading at around $44. Thanks to Jeff Bezos, you can nowbecome a landlord for as little as $100— and no, you don't have to deal with tenants or fix freezers. Here's how Robert Kiyosaki saysthis 1 asset will surge 400% in a yearand begs investors not to miss this ‘explosion’ Dave Ramsey warns nearly 50% of Americans are making 1 big Social Security mistake —here’s how to fix it ASAP The last month in particular, the company has been plagued by a string of bad news coming out of the sneaker giant's Beaverton, Oregon, headquarters. Nike faced backlash after its Boston Marathon "Runners Welcome, Walkers Tolerated." ad (2). It eventually apologized and walked the ad back (3). Then, the retailer announced that it was cutting 14,000 employees (4) from its workforce, primarily in its tech department. Nike has now done two rounds of layoffs in 2026. It's also the fourth consecutive year the company has downsized staff (5). Nike has said recent layoffs are about better positioning the company for the current pace of sports and accelerating its growth. In response to Moneywise's request for comment on this story, Nike directed us to its public announcement about the layoffs (6) and its future plans as a company. When Elliot Hill rejoined Nike in 2024 (7), this time as CEO, he was tasked with turning around the brand's sluggish sales. Key to this is Nike's "Win Now" strategy, predicated, in part, on rebuilding wholesale relationships with companies like Foot Locker and boosting sport innovation. In its public announcement about layoffs, COO Venkatesh Alagirisamy wrote to employees, "This is not a new direction. It is the next phase of the work already underway" (6). Morningstar analyst ⁠David Swartz recently told Reuters (8) that the layoffs signaled Nike's problems "run deeper than originally thought." He added the company should be further along in its recovery, while acknowledging Nike may have been overstaffed thanks to overhiring during the pandemic. After a mixed Nike earnings report at the end of March, Hill told analysts that Nike is moving in the right direction. Guggenheim Partner's consumer equity research analyst Simeon Siegel echoed that sentiment on CNBC'sFast Money(9), saying that Nike's performance in China was a lot better than expected in terms of narrowing losses and improving margins. There's still work to do across Europe and Asia, but he said North America revenues are also "growing nicely" — a credit to Hill. Read More:This $1B private real estate fund is now accessible to non-millionaires. Start investing with just $10 "A year ago, there was no chance North America revenues were going to grow. And yet they are growing," Siegel said. Nike's revenue was down 3% to $11.3 billion (10) on a currency neutral basis in its fiscal third quarter. Guidance for the current quarter left investors unimpressed and caused a sell-off of its stock. While some online critics blame Nike's "woke" marketing strategy (11) for its poor performance of late, the truth is Nike relied too heavily on DTC sales during the pandemic and shunned longtime wholesale partners in the process. Wholesale partners like Foot Locker then relied on other brands to fill up sneaker walls in their stores. At the same time, customers returned to stores after the world opened back up and started buying sneakers made by running brands like On and Hoka, and Asics and New Balance for lifestyle wear. Meanwhile, Nike was criticized by analysts (12) for relying on retro Dunk and Air Jordan models that were incredibly popular among sneakerheads during the pandemic. Now, Hill is focused more on sport and less on trendy lifestyle, and Nike selling everything itself. Millionaires under 43 are reshaping investing — just 25% of their portfolios are in stocks.Here’s where their money is going Taxes are going to change for retirees under Trump’s ‘big beautiful bill’ —here are 4 reasons you can’t afford to waste time Robert Kiyosakiissues grim warning for baby boomers: many could be ‘wiped out’ and homeless ‘all over’ the country Vanguard’s outlook on U.S. stocks is raising alarm bells for retirees.Here’s why and how to protect yourself Join 250,000+ readers and get Moneywise’s best stories and exclusive interviews first — clear insights curated and delivered weekly.Subscribe now. We rely only on vetted sources and credible third-party reporting. For details, see ourethics and guidelines. Business Insider(1),(7); Runner's World(2); Yahoo Sports(3); CNBC(4),(9); OregonLive(5); Nike(6),(10); Reuters(8); Daily Mail(11); Wall Street Journal(12) This article originally appeared onMoneywise.comunder the title:Nike slashes 1,400 more jobs as its stock crashes 70% from pandemic highs — and the real reason isn't 'woke' marketing This article provides information only and should not be construed as advice. It is provided without warranty of any kind. Weʼre unable to load stories right now. Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Sign in to access your portfolio