Title: 1 Cash-Producing Stock for Long-Term Investors and 2 We Turn Down
Date: 2026-05-05 04:36
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/1-cash-producing-stock-long-043655904.html?.tsrc=rss

Oops, something went wrong Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Spirit Airlines is gone. Here are the low-cost airlines filling the gap. Court documents show Musk warned OpenAI execs they would become 'the most hated men in America' days before the trial began Palantir beats earnings expectations, with revenue rising 85% on booming US business Dow, S&P 500, Nasdaq drop, oil surges as Middle East attacks escalate GameStop’s CEO dodged questions on funding the deal, leaving investors uneasy Dow sags while S&P 500, Nasdaq waver as Hormuz tensions rise Why trade deficits under Trump are so difficult to understand (and so easy to spin) Buying record highs looks riskier in the Nasdaq and Russell 2000 than in the broader market Would a gas tax holiday lower prices? What drivers should know. Wall Street sees more market gains as strong earnings fuel the AI trade The April jobs report and more major first quarter results await investors this week. April added roughly $1.2 trillion to Alphabet’s market value, or just over 50 times Google’s IPO valuation. Toto Wolff on Mercedes F1's dominant start, the 'outstanding' Kimi Antonelli, and why vulnerability is a leader's 'superpower' The average cost of college in 2026 (and how to pay for it) Network shakeups hit Medicare Advantage, forcing retirees to pay up or find new care Jerome Powell's Fed years were an everything rally The Iran War almost upended spring homebuying, but so far the market is showing 'surprising resilience' Berkshire Hathaway's profits double as shareholders gather for the annual meeting in Omaha (Associated Press) Bankrupt carrier Spirit Airlines ceased operations Saturday, the industry's first closure linked to the Iran war. If Spirit Airlines shuts down, travel chaos could ramp up. Here's how to protect your summer travel plans. The S&P 500 and Nasdaq jumped to record highs as the AI trade fueled a tech rally The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq advanced after hitting record highs as earnings rolled in Apple's earnings beat is part of an amazing trend AI developers are snapping up Mac minis, sparking a shortage that could drag on for months Apple beats earnings estimates on strong iPhone and China sales Dow jumps 750 points, S&P 500 and Nasdaq notch record highs to end the best month for stocks since 2020 The AI earnings bonanza is splitting investors Trump bets Hormuz blockade will break Iran before triggering a global crisis US stocks climb as economic updates, solid earnings roll in and Big Techs buoy AI hopes Nvidia has powered one third of the Mag 7's bull market gains Results from four Big Tech companies showed combined AI spending reaching an eye-popping $725 billion this year. Microsoft tops earnings estimates, says AI business up 123% year over year Meta stock falls despite earnings beat as AI spending plans spook investors Alphabet earnings top estimates on strong Google Cloud growth The Dow and S&P 500 slipped as oil surged, with Big Tech earnings on deck Powell will stay on as governor, says he has no choice amid legal attacks on Fed Powell holds what is expected to be his final press conference as chair after the Fed keeps rates steady Fed holds interest rates steady with no end to Iran war in sight Elon Musk testified again in the OpenAI trial, describing his behavior at the company and its nonprofit 'halo' A Senate committee confirmed Kevin Warsh, sending his nomination to be chairman of the Fed to the full Senate Stocks slipped at the open as investors awaited a Fed decision and Big Tech earnings The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq dropped as chip stocks sank and oil rose S&P 500 and Nasdaq sink, Dow rises as OpenAI-linked stocks falter and UAE exits OPEC The United Arab Emirates will leave OPEC+ effective May 1 The only number that matters for 'Magnificent 7' earnings this week The S&P 500 and Nasdaq notched fresh records, while oil edged higher as markets weighed Iran peace odds Gasoline prices are expected to turn higher as oil holds above $100 per barrel amid uncertainty over the US-Iran war US stocks open mixed as markets brace for a big week of Big Tech earnings. The rapid run-up in chip stocks has reignited the AI trade as the S&P 500 and Nasdaq sit at record highs. Americans are feeling less confident about their retirement savings. Here are some of the best ways to get started early. Generating cash is essential for any business, but not all cash-rich companies are great investments. Some produce plenty of cash but fail to allocate it effectively, leading to missed opportunities. Luckily for you, we built StockStory to help you separate the good from the bad. That said, here is one cash-producing company that excels at turning cash into shareholder value and two that may face some trouble. Trailing 12-Month Free Cash Flow Margin: 11.8% With a history dating back to 1958 and a portfolio spanning two distinct healthcare segments, Cooper Companies (NASDAQ:COO) develops and manufactures medical devices focused on vision care through contact lenses and women's health including fertility products and services. Why Does COO Give Us Pause? Muted 6.4% annual revenue growth over the last two years shows its demand lagged behind its healthcare peers 6 percentage point decline in its free cash flow margin over the last five years reflects the company’s increased investments to defend its market position Below-average returns on capital indicate management struggled to find compelling investment opportunities CooperCompanies’s stock price of $62.16 implies a valuation ratio of 13.4x forward P/E.Check out our free in-depth research report to learn more about why COO doesn’t pass our bar. Trailing 12-Month Free Cash Flow Margin: 16.8% Founded in 1996 and known for its expertise in complex drug formulations, Amphastar Pharmaceuticals (NASDAQ:AMPH) develops and manufactures technically challenging injectable and inhalation medications, including both generic and proprietary pharmaceutical products. Why Does AMPH Fall Short? 5.4% annual revenue growth over the last two years was slower than its healthcare peers Smaller revenue base of $719.9 million means it hasn’t achieved the economies of scale that some industry juggernauts enjoy Expenses have increased as a percentage of revenue over the last two years as its adjusted operating margin fell by 6.4 percentage points At $21.38 per share, Amphastar Pharmaceuticals trades at 6.7x forward P/E.To fully understand why you should be careful with AMPH, check out our full research report (it’s free). Trailing 12-Month Free Cash Flow Margin: 13% With its iconic yellow machinery working on construction sites, Caterpillar (NYSE:CAT) manufactures construction equipment like bulldozers, excavators, and parts and maintenance services. Why Do We Watch CAT? Highly efficient business model is illustrated by its impressive 16.9% operating margin, and its operating leverage amplified its profits over the last five years Free cash flow margin increased by 4.9 percentage points over the last five years, giving the company more capital to invest or return to shareholders ROIC punches in at 36.6%, illustrating management’s expertise in identifying profitable investments Caterpillar is trading at $889.06 per share, or 35.6x forward P/E. Is now the time to initiate a position?Find out in our full research report, it’s free. ALSO WORTH WATCHING: Top 5 Momentum Stocks.The best time to own a great stock is when the market is finally noticing it. These aren't just high-quality businesses. Something is happening with them right now. Elite fundamentals meeting near-term momentum - both boxes checked at the same time. Find out which stocks our AI platform is flagging this week. See this week's Strong Momentum stocks - FREE.Get Our Strong Momentum Stocks for Free HERE. Stocks that made our list in 2020 include now familiar names such as Nvidia (+1,326% between June 2020 and June 2025) as well as under-the-radar businesses like the once-small-cap company Exlservice (+354% five-year return).Find your next big winner with StockStory today. Weʼre unable to load stories right now. Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Sign in to access your portfolio