Title: Medline officially launches Mpower™, a digital control tower designed to predict, respond and resolve supply chain risks
Date: 2026-05-04 17:12
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/sectors/healthcare/articles/medline-officially-launches-mpower-digital-171200469.html?.tsrc=rss

Oops, something went wrong Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Spirit Airlines is gone. Here are the low-cost airlines filling the gap. Court documents show Musk warned OpenAI execs they would become 'the most hated men in America' days before the trial began Palantir beats earnings expectations, with revenue rising 85% on booming US business Dow, S&P 500, Nasdaq drop, oil surges as Middle East attacks escalate GameStop’s CEO dodged questions on funding the deal, leaving investors uneasy Dow sags while S&P 500, Nasdaq waver as Hormuz tensions rise Why trade deficits under Trump are so difficult to understand (and so easy to spin) Buying record highs looks riskier in the Nasdaq and Russell 2000 than in the broader market Would a gas tax holiday lower prices? What drivers should know. Wall Street sees more market gains as strong earnings fuel the AI trade The April jobs report and more major first quarter results await investors this week. April added roughly $1.2 trillion to Alphabet’s market value, or just over 50 times Google’s IPO valuation. Toto Wolff on Mercedes F1's dominant start, the 'outstanding' Kimi Antonelli, and why vulnerability is a leader's 'superpower' The average cost of college in 2026 (and how to pay for it) Network shakeups hit Medicare Advantage, forcing retirees to pay up or find new care Jerome Powell's Fed years were an everything rally The Iran War almost upended spring homebuying, but so far the market is showing 'surprising resilience' Berkshire Hathaway's profits double as shareholders gather for the annual meeting in Omaha (Associated Press) Bankrupt carrier Spirit Airlines ceased operations Saturday, the industry's first closure linked to the Iran war. If Spirit Airlines shuts down, travel chaos could ramp up. Here's how to protect your summer travel plans. The S&P 500 and Nasdaq jumped to record highs as the AI trade fueled a tech rally The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq advanced after hitting record highs as earnings rolled in Apple's earnings beat is part of an amazing trend AI developers are snapping up Mac minis, sparking a shortage that could drag on for months Apple beats earnings estimates on strong iPhone and China sales Dow jumps 750 points, S&P 500 and Nasdaq notch record highs to end the best month for stocks since 2020 The AI earnings bonanza is splitting investors Trump bets Hormuz blockade will break Iran before triggering a global crisis US stocks climb as economic updates, solid earnings roll in and Big Techs buoy AI hopes Nvidia has powered one third of the Mag 7's bull market gains Results from four Big Tech companies showed combined AI spending reaching an eye-popping $725 billion this year. Microsoft tops earnings estimates, says AI business up 123% year over year Meta stock falls despite earnings beat as AI spending plans spook investors Alphabet earnings top estimates on strong Google Cloud growth The Dow and S&P 500 slipped as oil surged, with Big Tech earnings on deck Powell will stay on as governor, says he has no choice amid legal attacks on Fed Powell holds what is expected to be his final press conference as chair after the Fed keeps rates steady Fed holds interest rates steady with no end to Iran war in sight Elon Musk testified again in the OpenAI trial, describing his behavior at the company and its nonprofit 'halo' A Senate committee confirmed Kevin Warsh, sending his nomination to be chairman of the Fed to the full Senate Stocks slipped at the open as investors awaited a Fed decision and Big Tech earnings The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq dropped as chip stocks sank and oil rose S&P 500 and Nasdaq sink, Dow rises as OpenAI-linked stocks falter and UAE exits OPEC The United Arab Emirates will leave OPEC+ effective May 1 The only number that matters for 'Magnificent 7' earnings this week The S&P 500 and Nasdaq notched fresh records, while oil edged higher as markets weighed Iran peace odds Gasoline prices are expected to turn higher as oil holds above $100 per barrel amid uncertainty over the US-Iran war US stocks open mixed as markets brace for a big week of Big Tech earnings. The rapid run-up in chip stocks has reignited the AI trade as the S&P 500 and Nasdaq sit at record highs. Americans are feeling less confident about their retirement savings. Here are some of the best ways to get started early. First wave of Medline customers begin leveraging Mpower to strengthen supply chain resiliency NORTHFIELD, Ill.,May 4, 2026/PRNewswire/ -- Medline (Nasdaq: MDLN) announced that its cloud-based, AI-powered supply chain technology calledMpower™is now available to help healthcare providers anticipate and respond to potential disruptions before they impact patient care. Built in collaboration with Microsoft and developed with direct input from health systems across the country, Mpower represents a significant step forward in modernizing healthcare supply chain decision-making. The solution is a digital control tower that predicts future risks, offers real-time solutions with proactive optimizations and automates workflows – bringing Medline's customer supply and demand data, predictive analytics and workflow automation together into an intuitive and actionable dashboard. With real-time insights, Mpower helps providers proactively identify at-risk items earlier and streamline their product substitutions and approval workflows, thereby reducing the daily operational burden for supply chain and clinical teams. Mpower also includes an integrated AI chat agent that enables users to ask questions, explore product alternatives and streamline clinical approvals directly within the platform. The system draws on Medline's extensive, end‑to‑end supply chain data as both a manufacturer and distributor to deliver enhanced real-time visibility into inventory positions, demand forecasts and potential vulnerabilities across supply networks. Leveraging the Microsoft Office 365 integration users are familiar with and the advanced data security of Microsoft Azure, Mpower is designed to be straightforward and secure to integrate, with minimal training required and the ability to deploy quickly. "Mpower reflects how we approach technology at Medline – building practical solutions in close collaboration with partners and customers," said Marshall Lancaster, Medline chief information officer. "Working with Microsoft, we focused on creating a cloud‑based platform that can be deployed efficiently, integrates seamlessly into existing environments and delivers meaningful value from day one." Following an early release with 10 well-known U.S. health systems, all of which worked closely with Medline to test, refine and help shape the platform ahead of broader availability, initial data shows a more than 50% efficiency gain in order substitution workflows and decision making compared to a five- to seven-day baseline without Mpower. Health systems using Mpower along with integrating into Medline's pre-approved AutoSub program saw a 1-2% increase in unadjusted fill-rates. "We're appreciative for the years of collaboration with providers who told us they needed better visibility, simpler workflows and smarter tools to help manage an increasingly complex global supply chain," said Marc Phillips, Medline senior vice president, supply chain solutions. "By combining Medline's supply chain expertise with Microsoft's cloud and AI capabilities, we expect the technology to play a central role in helping healthcare providers navigate ongoing volatility while building more resilient, data-driven supply chains for the future." Mpower is rolling out to Medline customers in phases throughout 2026, with additional capabilities planned as the platform evolves. Learn more about how Medline can support customers in optimizing their supply chains atgo.medline.com/mpower. About MedlineMedline is the largest provider of medical-surgical products and supply chain solutions serving all points of care. Through its broad product portfolio, resilient supply chain and leading clinical solutions, Medline helps healthcare providers improve their clinical, financial and operational outcomes. Headquartered in Northfield, Ill., the company employs more than 45,000 people worldwide and operates in more than 100 countries. To learn more about how Medline makes healthcare run better, visitwww.medline.com. Unless otherwise indicated, all figures are as of Dec. 31, 2025. View original content to download multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/medline-officially-launches-mpower-a-digital-control-tower-designed-to-predict-respond-and-resolve-supply-chain-risks-302761607.html Weʼre unable to load stories right now. Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Sign in to access your portfolio