Title: Azure's Growth Rate Bounces Back in Q3. Is Microsoft's Stock Due for a Rally?
Date: 2026-05-04 18:50
URL: https://www.fool.com/investing/2026/05/04/azures-growth-rate-bounces-back-in-q3-is-microsoft/?.tsrc=rss

Microsoft's earnings numbers looked solid, as it beat on Azure and its top and bottom lines. Shares ofMicrosoft(MSFT0.26%)have been doing poorly this year as investors have become concerned about both its high valuation and a slowing growth rate in its cloud business, Azure. With all eyes on heightened artificial intelligence (AI) expenditure, expectations may be high that Azure should be flourishing. And with that not proving to be the case when the company posted its earnings numbers back in January, the stock proceeded to crash. Microsoft recently released its latest quarterly numbers, which told a different story and showed Azure's growth rate coming in better than what analysts expected. Could this be the catalyst the stock needs to go on a prolonged rally? Image source: Getty Images. Last week, Microsoft reported its latest earnings numbers, covering the first three months of 2026, which came in a bit better than expected, particularly when it comes to Azure. That segment, which also includes other cloud services, rose by 40% for the quarter, which is better than the roughly 39% that analysts were expecting. Last quarter, the growth rate was 39%, and concerns of a slowdown in that area of its operations were a big reason investors were concerned about thetech stock. Going forward, the company expects its growth rate in Azure to range between 39% and 40%, which is also better than the 37% that analysts expect. Overall, there were plenty of encouraging numbers from the recent quarter to suggest that the company was doing well in not only Azure but its overall operations, as Microsoft reported a beat on not just Azure but its top and bottom lines as well. This Card Just Received a Rare 5-Star Rating Our team of credit card pros don’t just recommend this card—they actually use it. Motley Fool Money calls it a top pick for a reason. Microsoft's stock hasn't been surging due to its recent earnings numbers, but it has been rallying in recent weeks, with investors starting to recognize the value the stock possesses. In the past month, it's up 12%, but it remains down 14% since the start of the year. At 25 times trailing earnings, its price-to-earnings multiple is in line with theS&P 500average. For a top tech stock with significant exposure to AI, it may still be a good buy at itscurrent valuation. I wouldn't be surprised to see the stock rally from here on out, as Microsoft is one of the safer tech stocks to own, with terrific opportunities in AI. As a long-term investment, it's an excellent stock to simply put in your portfolio and hang on to for years.     Before you buy stock inMicrosoft, consider this: The Motley FoolStock Advisoranalyst team just identified what they believe are the10 best stocksfor investors to buy now… andMicrosoftwasn’t one of them. The 10 stocks that made the cut could produce monster returns in the coming years. Consider whenNetflixmade this list on December 17, 2004... if you invested $1,000 at the time of our recommendation,you’d have $496,473!*Or whenNvidiamade this list on April 15, 2005... if you invested $1,000 at the time of our recommendation,you’d have $1,216,605!* Now, it’s worth notingStock Advisor’s total average return is968% — a market-crushing outperformance compared to202%for the S&P 500. Don't miss the latest top 10 list, available withStock Advisor, and join an investing community built by individual investors for individual investors. See the 10 stocks › *Stock Advisor returns as of May 5, 2026.  David Jagielski, CPAhas no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Microsoft. The Motley Fool has adisclosure policy. This tech could reach $80 trillion. Imagine a technology worth over35 Amazons. What in the world could be worth 35 Amazons? The answer is a radical tech breakthrough that our experts think is transforming every walk of life. And this giant leap forward has many on Wall Street very excited. Continue ›  *Average returns of all recommendations since inception. Cost basis and return based on previous market day close. This Card Just Received a Rare 5-Star Rating Our team of credit card pros don’t just recommend this card—they actually use it. Motley Fool Money calls it a top pick for a reason. Invest better with The Motley Fool. Get stock recommendations, portfolio guidance, and more from The Motley Fool's premium services. Making the world smarter, happier, and richer. ©1995-2026The Motley Fool. All rights reserved. Market data powered byXigniteandPolygon.io. About The Motley Fool Our Services Around the Globe Free Tools Affiliates & Friends