Title: Nerdio Launches MSP 7.0 Amid Triple-Digit Microsoft 365 Growth
Date: 2026-05-04 17:45
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/sectors/technology/articles/nerdio-launches-msp-7-0-174500011.html?.tsrc=rss

Oops, something went wrong Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Spirit Airlines is gone. Here are the low-cost airlines filling the gap. Court documents show Musk warned OpenAI execs they would become 'the most hated men in America' days before the trial began Palantir beats earnings expectations, with revenue rising 85% on booming US business Dow, S&P 500, Nasdaq drop, oil surges as Middle East attacks escalate GameStop’s CEO dodged questions on funding the deal, leaving investors uneasy Dow sags while S&P 500, Nasdaq waver as Hormuz tensions rise Why trade deficits under Trump are so difficult to understand (and so easy to spin) Buying record highs looks riskier in the Nasdaq and Russell 2000 than in the broader market Would a gas tax holiday lower prices? What drivers should know. Wall Street sees more market gains as strong earnings fuel the AI trade The April jobs report and more major first quarter results await investors this week. April added roughly $1.2 trillion to Alphabet’s market value, or just over 50 times Google’s IPO valuation. Toto Wolff on Mercedes F1's dominant start, the 'outstanding' Kimi Antonelli, and why vulnerability is a leader's 'superpower' The average cost of college in 2026 (and how to pay for it) Network shakeups hit Medicare Advantage, forcing retirees to pay up or find new care Jerome Powell's Fed years were an everything rally The Iran War almost upended spring homebuying, but so far the market is showing 'surprising resilience' Berkshire Hathaway's profits double as shareholders gather for the annual meeting in Omaha (Associated Press) Bankrupt carrier Spirit Airlines ceased operations Saturday, the industry's first closure linked to the Iran war. If Spirit Airlines shuts down, travel chaos could ramp up. Here's how to protect your summer travel plans. The S&P 500 and Nasdaq jumped to record highs as the AI trade fueled a tech rally The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq advanced after hitting record highs as earnings rolled in Apple's earnings beat is part of an amazing trend AI developers are snapping up Mac minis, sparking a shortage that could drag on for months Apple beats earnings estimates on strong iPhone and China sales Dow jumps 750 points, S&P 500 and Nasdaq notch record highs to end the best month for stocks since 2020 The AI earnings bonanza is splitting investors Trump bets Hormuz blockade will break Iran before triggering a global crisis US stocks climb as economic updates, solid earnings roll in and Big Techs buoy AI hopes Nvidia has powered one third of the Mag 7's bull market gains Results from four Big Tech companies showed combined AI spending reaching an eye-popping $725 billion this year. Microsoft tops earnings estimates, says AI business up 123% year over year Meta stock falls despite earnings beat as AI spending plans spook investors Alphabet earnings top estimates on strong Google Cloud growth The Dow and S&P 500 slipped as oil surged, with Big Tech earnings on deck Powell will stay on as governor, says he has no choice amid legal attacks on Fed Powell holds what is expected to be his final press conference as chair after the Fed keeps rates steady Fed holds interest rates steady with no end to Iran war in sight Elon Musk testified again in the OpenAI trial, describing his behavior at the company and its nonprofit 'halo' A Senate committee confirmed Kevin Warsh, sending his nomination to be chairman of the Fed to the full Senate Stocks slipped at the open as investors awaited a Fed decision and Big Tech earnings The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq dropped as chip stocks sank and oil rose S&P 500 and Nasdaq sink, Dow rises as OpenAI-linked stocks falter and UAE exits OPEC The United Arab Emirates will leave OPEC+ effective May 1 The only number that matters for 'Magnificent 7' earnings this week The S&P 500 and Nasdaq notched fresh records, while oil edged higher as markets weighed Iran peace odds Gasoline prices are expected to turn higher as oil holds above $100 per barrel amid uncertainty over the US-Iran war US stocks open mixed as markets brace for a big week of Big Tech earnings. The rapid run-up in chip stocks has reignited the AI trade as the S&P 500 and Nasdaq sit at record highs. Americans are feeling less confident about their retirement savings. Here are some of the best ways to get started early. More MSPs are adopting Nerdio Manager to help rapidly scale their Microsoft Cloud technologies and deliver better outcomes for their clients CHICAGO, IL, May 04, 2026(GLOBE NEWSWIRE)-- Nerdio, the only multi-tenant management solution for Microsoft 365, Windows 365, and Azure Virtual Desktop, today announced record MSP growth alongside the launch of Nerdio Manager for MSP 7.0. In 2025, the company grew its MSP user base over 100%, spanning Microsoft 365, Windows 365, and Azure Virtual Desktop. Nerdio’s impressive growth was driven by growing demand from MSPs looking to consolidate their entire Microsoft practices onto a single, scalable platform. In addition, Nerdio today introduced Nerdio Manager for MSP 7.0, making it easier for MSPs to deliver, manage, and grow their Microsoft Cloud practices across every customer, all from a single platform. “MSPs are at an inflection point. They’re no longer just managing environments; they’re building scalable, cloud-first businesses, and they need a platform that can grow with them across their entire Microsoft stack,” said Vadim Vladimirskiy, CEO and Co-Founder, Nerdio. “Nerdio is the only solution that gives MSPs true multi-tenant management across Microsoft 365, Windows 365, and Azure Virtual Desktop from a single pane of glass. That’s not just a product advantage; it’s a strategic one. Our record growth tells us MSPs recognize that—and we built 7.0 to take them even further.” Nerdio Manager for MSP saw Microsoft 365 users surge more than 300% year-over-year, reflecting rapid adoption as MSPs expand their Microsoft Cloud practices beyond traditional virtual desktop environments. “Our main challenge managing Microsoft 365 was that with so many tenants involved, we found that our technicians had to manually move from tenant to tenant, using a confusing mix of browsers,” said Ben Estephan, President, Inhouse-Support. “By using Nerdio Manager, we were able to centralize everything under one window. [Our technicians] increased their efficiency many times over because now we're under one window and one tab, and all of our tenants are in one place.” Building on its strong growth, Nerdio Manager for MSP 7.0 introduces several key features to support MSPs on their Microsoft journeys. First, it helps MSPs get their Microsoft practice up and running quickly. Then, version 7.0 turns insights into new business, standardizes deployments at scale, and secures it all with streamlined policies and compliance. The platform allows MSPs to quickly prove the value of their services to clients. Nerdio Manager for MSP 7.0’s key new capabilities include: Prospect Tenant Assessment Wizard: Scan a prospect’s Microsoft 365 environment, surface security gaps and inefficiencies, and generate a client-ready assessment report. PSA integration: Directly connect Nerdio Manager with leading MSP platforms, including Datto Autotask PSA, ConnectWise PSA, and Halo PSA. Purview Solution Baselines: Manage Microsoft Purview policies directly in Nerdio, and apply compliance baselines across Microsoft 365 environments. Reporting Engine:Create custom, white labelled reports across Azure Virtual Desktop, Microsoft 365, and Azure, covering cost, usage, performance, and compliance. Nerdio Manager for MSP 7.0 is available in public preview starting May 4th. To learn more about how it can help transform your MSP’s Microsoft practice, visit ourblog. About Nerdio Nerdio is a leading provider of powerful, simplified cloud management solutions for businesses of all sizes. Trusted by enterprise IT departments and managed service providers (MSPs) alike, Nerdio equips organizations with seamless, cost-effective management tools for Windows 365, Azure Virtual Desktop, and comprehensive Microsoft 365 solutions. With over 23,000 customers worldwide, Nerdio accelerates cloud adoption, enabling companies to thrive in an era of hybrid work by providing modern, future-proof technology that adapts to evolving workplace needs. For more information, please visitwww.getnerdio.com. CONTACT: Kaitlyn Ethier Nerdio 978-578-0480 media@getnerdio.com  Weʼre unable to load stories right now. Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Sign in to access your portfolio