Title: Corporate America Earnings Beat Back Wall Street’s Wall of Worry
Date: 2026-05-02 13:00
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/corporate-america-earnings-beat-back-130000785.html?.tsrc=rss

Oops, something went wrong Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Spirit Airlines is gone. Here are the low-cost airlines filling the gap. Court documents show Musk warned OpenAI execs they would become 'the most hated men in America' days before the trial began Palantir beats earnings expectations, with revenue rising 85% on booming US business Dow, S&P 500, Nasdaq drop, oil surges as Middle East attacks escalate GameStop’s CEO dodged questions on funding the deal, leaving investors uneasy Dow sags while S&P 500, Nasdaq waver as Hormuz tensions rise Why trade deficits under Trump are so difficult to understand (and so easy to spin) Buying record highs looks riskier in the Nasdaq and Russell 2000 than in the broader market Would a gas tax holiday lower prices? What drivers should know. Wall Street sees more market gains as strong earnings fuel the AI trade The April jobs report and more major first quarter results await investors this week. April added roughly $1.2 trillion to Alphabet’s market value, or just over 50 times Google’s IPO valuation. Toto Wolff on Mercedes F1's dominant start, the 'outstanding' Kimi Antonelli, and why vulnerability is a leader's 'superpower' The average cost of college in 2026 (and how to pay for it) Network shakeups hit Medicare Advantage, forcing retirees to pay up or find new care Jerome Powell's Fed years were an everything rally The Iran War almost upended spring homebuying, but so far the market is showing 'surprising resilience' Berkshire Hathaway's profits double as shareholders gather for the annual meeting in Omaha (Associated Press) Bankrupt carrier Spirit Airlines ceased operations Saturday, the industry's first closure linked to the Iran war. If Spirit Airlines shuts down, travel chaos could ramp up. Here's how to protect your summer travel plans. The S&P 500 and Nasdaq jumped to record highs as the AI trade fueled a tech rally The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq advanced after hitting record highs as earnings rolled in Apple's earnings beat is part of an amazing trend AI developers are snapping up Mac minis, sparking a shortage that could drag on for months Apple beats earnings estimates on strong iPhone and China sales Dow jumps 750 points, S&P 500 and Nasdaq notch record highs to end the best month for stocks since 2020 The AI earnings bonanza is splitting investors Trump bets Hormuz blockade will break Iran before triggering a global crisis US stocks climb as economic updates, solid earnings roll in and Big Techs buoy AI hopes Nvidia has powered one third of the Mag 7's bull market gains Results from four Big Tech companies showed combined AI spending reaching an eye-popping $725 billion this year. Microsoft tops earnings estimates, says AI business up 123% year over year Meta stock falls despite earnings beat as AI spending plans spook investors Alphabet earnings top estimates on strong Google Cloud growth The Dow and S&P 500 slipped as oil surged, with Big Tech earnings on deck Powell will stay on as governor, says he has no choice amid legal attacks on Fed Powell holds what is expected to be his final press conference as chair after the Fed keeps rates steady Fed holds interest rates steady with no end to Iran war in sight Elon Musk testified again in the OpenAI trial, describing his behavior at the company and its nonprofit 'halo' A Senate committee confirmed Kevin Warsh, sending his nomination to be chairman of the Fed to the full Senate Stocks slipped at the open as investors awaited a Fed decision and Big Tech earnings The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq dropped as chip stocks sank and oil rose S&P 500 and Nasdaq sink, Dow rises as OpenAI-linked stocks falter and UAE exits OPEC The United Arab Emirates will leave OPEC+ effective May 1 The only number that matters for 'Magnificent 7' earnings this week The S&P 500 and Nasdaq notched fresh records, while oil edged higher as markets weighed Iran peace odds Gasoline prices are expected to turn higher as oil holds above $100 per barrel amid uncertainty over the US-Iran war US stocks open mixed as markets brace for a big week of Big Tech earnings. The rapid run-up in chip stocks has reignited the AI trade as the S&P 500 and Nasdaq sit at record highs. Americans are feeling less confident about their retirement savings. Here are some of the best ways to get started early. (Bloomberg) -- First-quarter earnings season is delivering Wall Street better-than-expected results, propelling US equities’ run from one record to the next. Most Read from Bloomberg Supertanker Appears to Have Crossed the Strait of Hormuz Beijing Tells China Firms to Ignore US Sanctions on Refiners World’s Largest Container Carrier Plans Route Avoiding Hormuz Philippines Says Thousands Evacuated as Mayon Volcano Erupts Trump Casts Doubts on Iran Peace Proposal as Details Emerge As earnings wind down for two-thirds of the stocks in the S&P 500 Index, the proportion of companies missing analysts’ estimates is hovering at the lowest level since 2021. It’s not just due to blowout earnings from technology giants, which were expected to lead the charge. S&P 500 companies outside of the tech realm have been posting the sharpest positive earnings surprises since the fourth quarter of 2024, according to Seaport Research Partners. For Wall Street investors, that’s a vote of confidence in Corporate America’s profit machine, which keeps humming along despite an oil price shock, tariff turmoil and rising worries about the health of the US consumer. “As I look at how companies have reported results, I would argue that resilient is almost too modest of a word. There’s real, obvious strength,” said Marta Norton, chief market strategist at Empower. “The foundation of the economy is proving to be very, very strong.” The strength is showing up across sectors. Small caps are on a tear, bank profits are booming and firms keep plowing past macroeconomic obstacles, though some worries still linger. Here are five themes that investors are watching play out in this reporting period: Spending Spree Microsoft Corp., Amazon.com Inc., Alphabet Inc., Meta Platforms Inc. and Apple Inc. — which make up roughly a quarter of the S&P 500’s total market capitalization — were the headliners this week. Their earnings were generally better than expected, though Meta and Microsoft retreated amid concerns around the companies’ capital spending plans. Meanwhile, the rally in semiconductor stocks extended. Intel Corp. topped the leaderboard, soaring 114% in April, helped by an estimate-shattering sales forecast. Texas Instruments Inc. was also a notable earnings-driven gainer. After soaring nearly 50% during an 18-session winning streak last month the Philadelphia Semiconductor Index, or SOX, closed at an all-time high on Friday. More broadly, earnings for information tech companies in the S&P 500 grew about 50% on a per-share basis, beating the broad index’s 30% gain. That’s pushing analysts to raise their price targets. Russell Roars US economic resilience and earnings growth is finally propelling the market’s riskiest stocks after fits and starts of outperformance in recent years. Small-cap stocks are displaying the kind of long-term momentum and fast-paced earnings growth that could set the sector up for prolonged gains, according to Keith Lerner, chief investment officer and chief market strategist at Truist Advisory Services. “We’re seeing forward-earnings estimates making fresh highs every week,” he said. The Russell 2000 Index is up 13% so far in 2026 — well ahead of the S&P 500’s 5.6% gain. Small caps “do most of their business domestically and are therefore benefiting disproportionately from the strong US economic environment,” said Mike Dickson, head of research at Horizon Investments. Bank Boom Big US banks notched the most profitable quarter ever with executives projecting confidence about the US economy and expectations for record lending hauls. The KBW Bank Index climbed 10% in April, the biggest monthly gain since November 2024. “This industry is ripe to capitalize from AI,” according to Barclays analyst Jason Goldberg, who expects increasing profits from banks, including Bank of America Corp. and KeyCorp. At Wells Fargo & Co. Chief Executive Officer Charlie Scharf told investors that the “financial health of consumers and businesses remains strong.” Consumers are spending more than last year, he said, and not just on gas. Still, Bloomberg Intelligence senior analyst Herman Chan was cautious about the outlook for net interest margins for the rest of the year, especially if the Federal Reserve holds off on lowering interest rates. “Banks are seeing decent lending activity, but no rate cuts means tougher deposit competition to fund the loan growth.” JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Jamie Dimon also struck a note of caution, warning that a credit market downturn could be worse than expected. Oil Shock Other concerns remain. Oil price swings are making guidance difficult and rattling energy producers and oil-dependent companies. The energy sector tumbled in April after leading in March. More than 70% of S&P companies reporting in April mentioned “Iran” or “oil,” twice the share mentioning “tariffs,” according to BofA. Measures of corporate sentiment show a “hint of caution” creeping into earnings reports, even as fundamentals held, the bank’s strategists said. Exxon Mobil Corp. Chief Financial Officer Neil Hansen said that “part of the challenge with giving guidance is, as you would imagine, we really don’t know how long the Strait of Hormuz will remain closed.” The oil giant topped expectations as crude prices soared, as did Chevron Corp. Shares in both oil and gas producers are up over 25% so far this year. The stalemate in the Middle East has given financial managers across industries more leeway to hold off on lowering forecasts in recent weeks, according to Steve Sosnick, chief strategist at Interactive Brokers. “If you’re willing to separate your concerns about the global situation, by all means, we should be rallying,” Sosnick said. ‘All Clear’ Despite oil’s swings, Americans keep spending, juicing results for consumer-facing companies. Consumer discretionary stocks climbed 12% in April, outperforming the broader benchmark. It’s an about face from March when spiking gas prices fanned inflation and recession fears, weighing on the group. “If you were waiting for the all clear, it’s too late,” said Empower’s Norton. Amazon’s 27% rally in April helped the sector’s advance, but strength extended beyond the mega-cap stock with three-quarters of the group’s members climbing. Starbucks Corp. rallied 18% in April, while homebuilder DR Horton Inc. climbed 12%. Hotel owners Hilton Worldwide Holdings Inc. and Wynn Resorts Ltd. also advanced. There are still major names due to report — including McDonald’s Corp., Home Depot Inc. and TJX Cos. The sector has so far painted a better picture of US consumer spending than Wall Street had expected, while recent macroeconomic data, including for the labor market, are reinforcing investors’ newfound optimism, according to Norton. In March, when the Iran war caused oil prices to spike, personal spending climbed 0.9%. “There’s greater strength than we realized for the US consumer,” she said. The question is if that strength — and earnings momentum — will persist if oil volatility continues or rate cuts are delayed. Most Read from Bloomberg Businessweek America’s Go-To Autism Therapy Is Also the Most Controversial United’s CEO Is Here to Buy Your Struggling Airline It’s Boating Season, But Only If You Can Afford Fuel Running America’s Second-Busiest Airport in Turbulent Times The NBA Draft Is Bad for Business ©2026 Bloomberg L.P. Weʼre unable to load stories right now. Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Sign in to access your portfolio