Title: Traders Grapple With Two-Sided Tail Risk as Stocks Regain Highs
Date: 2026-05-03 14:00
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/news/traders-grapple-two-sided-tail-140000302.html?.tsrc=rss

Oops, something went wrong Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Spirit Airlines is gone. Here are the low-cost airlines filling the gap. Court documents show Musk warned OpenAI execs they would become 'the most hated men in America' days before the trial began Palantir beats earnings expectations, with revenue rising 85% on booming US business Dow, S&P 500, Nasdaq drop, oil surges as Middle East attacks escalate GameStop’s CEO dodged questions on funding the deal, leaving investors uneasy Dow sags while S&P 500, Nasdaq waver as Hormuz tensions rise Why trade deficits under Trump are so difficult to understand (and so easy to spin) Buying record highs looks riskier in the Nasdaq and Russell 2000 than in the broader market Would a gas tax holiday lower prices? What drivers should know. Wall Street sees more market gains as strong earnings fuel the AI trade The April jobs report and more major first quarter results await investors this week. April added roughly $1.2 trillion to Alphabet’s market value, or just over 50 times Google’s IPO valuation. Toto Wolff on Mercedes F1's dominant start, the 'outstanding' Kimi Antonelli, and why vulnerability is a leader's 'superpower' The average cost of college in 2026 (and how to pay for it) Network shakeups hit Medicare Advantage, forcing retirees to pay up or find new care Jerome Powell's Fed years were an everything rally The Iran War almost upended spring homebuying, but so far the market is showing 'surprising resilience' Berkshire Hathaway's profits double as shareholders gather for the annual meeting in Omaha (Associated Press) Bankrupt carrier Spirit Airlines ceased operations Saturday, the industry's first closure linked to the Iran war. If Spirit Airlines shuts down, travel chaos could ramp up. Here's how to protect your summer travel plans. The S&P 500 and Nasdaq jumped to record highs as the AI trade fueled a tech rally The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq advanced after hitting record highs as earnings rolled in Apple's earnings beat is part of an amazing trend AI developers are snapping up Mac minis, sparking a shortage that could drag on for months Apple beats earnings estimates on strong iPhone and China sales Dow jumps 750 points, S&P 500 and Nasdaq notch record highs to end the best month for stocks since 2020 The AI earnings bonanza is splitting investors Trump bets Hormuz blockade will break Iran before triggering a global crisis US stocks climb as economic updates, solid earnings roll in and Big Techs buoy AI hopes Nvidia has powered one third of the Mag 7's bull market gains Results from four Big Tech companies showed combined AI spending reaching an eye-popping $725 billion this year. Microsoft tops earnings estimates, says AI business up 123% year over year Meta stock falls despite earnings beat as AI spending plans spook investors Alphabet earnings top estimates on strong Google Cloud growth The Dow and S&P 500 slipped as oil surged, with Big Tech earnings on deck Powell will stay on as governor, says he has no choice amid legal attacks on Fed Powell holds what is expected to be his final press conference as chair after the Fed keeps rates steady Fed holds interest rates steady with no end to Iran war in sight Elon Musk testified again in the OpenAI trial, describing his behavior at the company and its nonprofit 'halo' A Senate committee confirmed Kevin Warsh, sending his nomination to be chairman of the Fed to the full Senate Stocks slipped at the open as investors awaited a Fed decision and Big Tech earnings The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq dropped as chip stocks sank and oil rose S&P 500 and Nasdaq sink, Dow rises as OpenAI-linked stocks falter and UAE exits OPEC The United Arab Emirates will leave OPEC+ effective May 1 The only number that matters for 'Magnificent 7' earnings this week The S&P 500 and Nasdaq notched fresh records, while oil edged higher as markets weighed Iran peace odds Gasoline prices are expected to turn higher as oil holds above $100 per barrel amid uncertainty over the US-Iran war US stocks open mixed as markets brace for a big week of Big Tech earnings. The rapid run-up in chip stocks has reignited the AI trade as the S&P 500 and Nasdaq sit at record highs. Americans are feeling less confident about their retirement savings. Here are some of the best ways to get started early. (Bloomberg) -- With equities back to their highs after a V-shaped recovery from the Iran oil shock, investors are increasingly caught between left and right tail risks: The tireless AI and semiconductor rally on one side and the gradual drag from higher energy prices on the other. Most Read from Bloomberg Beijing Tells China Firms to Ignore US Sanctions on Refiners Supertanker Appears to Have Crossed the Strait of Hormuz World’s Largest Container Carrier Plans Route Avoiding Hormuz Former NYC Mayor Giuliani in Critical Condition, Trump Says Philippines Says Thousands Evacuated as Mayon Volcano Erupts Last week’s megacap tech earnings and Federal Reserve meeting did little to tamp down investor enthusiasm in the US. Meanwhile, the ongoing Iran conflict has oil prices climbing again, raising the specter of inflation and higher interest rates, especially in Europe. That’s keeping options volatility in the region relatively high. “Markets are once again trying to look through the oil shock,” Florian Ielpo, head of macro at Lombard Odier Investment Managers, wrote in a note Friday. “Despite Brent moving sharply higher, equities have stopped reacting mechanically to oil, as earnings momentum remains strong enough to absorb higher yields and geopolitical risk.” US stocks have largely shrugged off the higher oil price as the earnings season picked up steam in mid-April, but there is still concern that this could change quickly, especially as short-term, daily sensitivity to oil prices hasn’t shifted materially. Tech Goldilocks Results from tech giants were mostly positive, with investors cheering better-than-expected earnings but nonplussed by huge capital spending plans. While some of the biggest names such as Meta Platforms Inc. stumbled, other tech stocks kept indexes moving higher. So investors are still playing upside via call options, keeping the Nasdaq 100 Index call skew flat as they chase the rally. BBVA strategist Michalis Onisiforou noted recently that “the rally’s concentration in semiconductors, while narrow, is often a precursor to broader market participation rather than a sign of exhaustion.” Given the extreme upside momentum in those stocks since April 8, some investors will be anticipating a period of consolidation with the pace of gains viewed as unsustainable without an additional catalyst. The next big hurdle to jump will be Nvidia Corp.’s earnings after the market close on May 20, which is shaping up as the biggest event — not just for tech stocks, but the broader market. Europe-US Volatility Volatility in European benchmark indexes is holding stubbornly higher than in the US, supported by the rising oil prices. Europe is much more sensitive to oil and natural gas supply upsets, though US gasoline, diesel and jet fuel prices are surging as well lately. “The market is faced with higher oil prices, higher yields and an uncertain timeline regarding the opening of the Strait of Hormuz,” said Andy Kent, broker at Kyte. “When we combine these factors, the European equity derivatives market in particular remains in a regime of implied vols significantly higher than realized.” Reopening the strait could unleash a sharp rally in underowned European stocks, amplified by dealer gamma positioning, while failed talks and another leg higher in oil prices risk triggering a rapid reversal as the market reprices the energy shock. Bank of America Corp. strategists noted that 2026 is shaping up to see an unusually high number of single-stock fragility shocks. Dealers remain short gamma in the Euro Stoxx 50 Index, according to Kent. That leaves a potential for “gap risk to both the downside and upside based on potential outcomes” — either the US striking Iran again or a resolution that leads to the Strait of Hormuz reopening to shipping, Kent said. Resilient Dividends While the Iran war has had a knock-on effect to Euro Stoxx 50 dividends, this corner of equity derivatives has been more resilient. Futures reacted less sharply to the slide in the underlying spot index than during last April’s tariff-driven selloff. Strategists at Bank of America put this down to more muted dealer hedging dynamics, with the Euro Stoxx 50 spot having remained well above key technical levels relevant for auto-callable hedging and diversification within auto-callable issuance. Oil Calm Brent crude futures at one point last week reached the highest price since 2022, but options markets were relatively calm, with implied volatility and the call skew both well below levels seen earlier in the war. A lot of that has to do with the nature of the rally, which has been a steady grind higher instead of the spikes and plunges seen in March. Oil prices remaining higher are the major stumbling block to a continued rally. Macro conditions are a headwind, according to Ielpo, who notes US inflation is re‑accelerating, euro-zone inflation is back above target and central banks are sounding less dovish. “The Fed, ECB and BOE are all effectively saying that higher oil prices mean no easy rate cuts,” he said. Most Read from Bloomberg Businessweek America’s Go-To Autism Therapy Is Also the Most Controversial It’s Boating Season, But Only If You Can Afford Fuel Running America’s Second-Busiest Airport in Turbulent Times Ready or Not, the AI Phones Are Coming The NBA Draft Is Bad for Business ©2026 Bloomberg L.P. Weʼre unable to load stories right now. Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Sign in to access your portfolio