Title: Is This Dividend King a Buy Near Its All-Time High?
Date: 2026-05-02 19:20
URL: https://www.fool.com/investing/2026/05/02/is-this-dividend-king-a-buy-near-its-all-time-high/?.tsrc=rss

The company boasts qualities many investors are looking for right now. Coca-Cola(KO0.50%)has crushed broader equities in 2026 even amid concerns about geopolitical tensions, inflation, and a potential recession. The company's shares are up 13% this year -- versus theS&P 500return of just 5% -- and the stock isn't that far from its all-time high. Is Coca-Cola still worth investing in at current levels? Let's find out. Coca-Cola's shares jumped on the heels of its most recent quarterly update. For the first quarter, Coca-Cola's revenue increased by 12% year over year -- a strong performance for thebeverage giant-- to $12.5 billion, on the back of a 3% increase in unit case volume. Coca-Cola's adjusted earnings per share grew 18% year over year to $0.86. The company's free cash flow was $1.8 billion, compared with a negative $5.5 billion in the same period of the previous fiscal year, and Coca-Cola also grew its market share during the period. Image source: The Motley Fool. Some might be surprised by Coca-Cola's strong performance, given the significant economic uncertainty we face, marked by higher prices, among other things. However, Coca-Cola has proven time and time again that it boasts an incredibly resilient business. As a consumer staples leader, the company tends to perform relatively well even in challenging times. Further, its brand name effortlessly attracts customers, a significant advantage. We can also point to the company's extensive product portfolio across multiple beverage categories. These strengths highlight why Coca-Cola is an excellent long-term bet. It doesn't have the kind of growth potential that leading tech companies do. But Coca-Cola can provide some stability to a well-diversified portfolio. Sure, the company faces some long-term risks, such as stiff competition -- including from new market entrants -- changing consumer preferences, and stricter regulations. Coca-Cola has dealt with all these before, though, and successfully so. This Card Just Received a Rare 5-Star Rating Our team of credit card pros don’t just recommend this card—they actually use it. Motley Fool Money calls it a top pick for a reason. The company constantly launches new products to keep up with evolving consumer choices (including healthier or cheaper options to appeal to health-conscious or price-sensitive customers). Coca-Cola can also handle competition, whether from established players in the industry or newer companies, as evidenced by its growing market share during the period. Its wide moat, stemming from its brand name and helping it command shelf space in the largest stores, is another important asset that can help it withstand potential obstacles. Then we can point out that Coca-Cola is a fantastic dividend stock. It is aDividend King, or a corporation with 50 or more consecutive annual payout increases. Coca-Cola's streak currently stands at 64. Lastly, Coca-Cola's shares don't seem particularly overvalued. The company is trading at 24.2x forward earnings, compared to the consumer staples average of 22.2x.My view is that, even with its post-earnings jump and trading near all-time highs, Coca-Cola remains an excellent option for long-term dividend seekers.     Before you buy stock inCoca-Cola, consider this: The Motley FoolStock Advisoranalyst team just identified what they believe are the10 best stocksfor investors to buy now… andCoca-Colawasn’t one of them. The 10 stocks that made the cut are built for long-term growth and could produce monster returns in the coming years. Consider whenNetflixmade this list on December 17, 2004... if you invested $1,000 at the time of our recommendation,you’d have $496,473!*Or whenNvidiamade this list on April 15, 2005... if you invested $1,000 at the time of our recommendation,you’d have $1,216,605!* That performance is why people listen. With a track record ofbeating the S&P 500 by nearly 5x,Stock Advisoroffers a distinct advantage. Don't miss the latest top 10 list, available withStock Advisor, and join an investing community built for the long haul. See the 10 stocks › *Stock Advisor returns as of May 5, 2026.  Prosper Junior Bakinyhas no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has adisclosure policy. This tech could reach $80 trillion. Imagine a technology worth over35 Amazons. What in the world could be worth 35 Amazons? The answer is a radical tech breakthrough that our experts think is transforming every walk of life. And this giant leap forward has many on Wall Street very excited. Continue ›  *Average returns of all recommendations since inception. Cost basis and return based on previous market day close. This Card Just Received a Rare 5-Star Rating Our team of credit card pros don’t just recommend this card—they actually use it. Motley Fool Money calls it a top pick for a reason. Invest better with The Motley Fool. Get stock recommendations, portfolio guidance, and more from The Motley Fool's premium services. Making the world smarter, happier, and richer. ©1995-2026The Motley Fool. All rights reserved. Market data powered byXigniteandPolygon.io. About The Motley Fool Our Services Around the Globe Free Tools Affiliates & Friends