Title: Coca-Cola, Comcast advance long-time employees into top HR roles
Date: 2026-05-04 16:34
URL: https://www.hrdive.com/news/hr-pros-on-the-move-in-april-2026/819200/?.tsrc=rss

 Let HR Dive’s free newsletter keep you informed, straight from your inbox.  April featured a number of internal promotions into CHRO and CPO positions. A legendary soft drink company and a Southern convenience store chain are among the businesses that appointed new HR leaders in the month of April. Comcast has promoted Vicki Williams to chief human resources officer, a newly created role, according to an April 7 release. Williams will also maintain her current position as CHRO at NBCUniversal, a role she has served in for eight years, Comcast said. Through her new dual roles, she will lead human capital strategy “across the enterprise,” Comcast said. Within Comcast, Melanie Penna, a 30-year veteran of the company, will become CHRO of the connectivity & platforms division, the company said. Tapaswee Chandele has become the newglobal chief people officer for The Coca-Cola Co., per an April 14 announcement from the company. Chandele has worked her way up over more than 20 years at Coca-Cola, including most recently as senior vice president and executive assistant to president and CFO John Murphy. Prior to that, she was senior vice president of global talent, development and HR system partnerships. Southern convenience store chain RaceTrac has namedMark Gunn its first-ever CPO, according to reporting in C-Store Dive. Gunn was previously senior vice president of people at Hibbett Sports and, before that, CHRO for discount retailer 99 Cents Only Stores, according to his LinkedIn page. “I look forward to partnering with our talented teams across the enterprise as we continue to grow, innovate, and deliver on the commitments that make RaceTrac such a special place to work and serve,” Gunn saidin a LinkedIn post. Emma Woodthorpe is the newCPO of Atlas Air Worldwide, according to an April 27 press release. In this role, she will oversee talent acquisition, leadership development, organizational effectiveness, total rewards, employee engagement and relations, HR operations and people technology, Atlas said. Woodthorpe was previously CPO at Brooks Automation and, before that, senior vice president and CHRO at Mercury Systems. Management and financial consulting firm Embark has appointedRussell Weaver as CPO, the company said in an April 30 announcement. Weaver will lead talent acquisition and people strategy and will help optimize people, process and technology to “deliver greater speed, quality, and diversity across the firm’s growing workforce.” Russell was most recently head of talent acquisition at Paramount. Get the free daily newsletter read by industry experts An update to our conference list includes the latest dates and locations organizers have shared — as well as a few new events. Jose Luis Magana/AP The group hopes to provide guidance to stakeholders “given the EEOC’s abdication of its responsibilities to do so,” said Jocelyn Samuels, former vice chair for the agency. Subscribe to HR Dive for top news, trends & analysis Sign up for the freenewsletter. Interested? Explore more of whathas to offer. Thanks for signing up!
            Please keep an eye out for a confirmation email fromnewsletter@ittnewsletter.comTo ensure we make it into your inbox regularly,
            add us to your allow list, mark us as a safe sender, or add us to your address book.
            Check out more from Get the free daily newsletter read by industry experts An Epstein Becker & Green attorney noted that navigating the logistics of multiple state leave plans can get tricky. Technology implementation is creeping upwards on the to-do lists of global HR leaders, yet few believe their organizations have the necessary capabilities in place. The free newsletter covering the top industry headlines