Title: The Best Dividend Stocks to Buy and Hold Forever
Date: 2026-05-04 09:04
URL: https://www.fool.com/investing/2026/05/04/the-best-dividend-stocks-to-buy-and-hold-forever/?.tsrc=rss

These companies are built to last. And their stocks are built for owning over the long term. What's the best kind of stock to buy and never sell? Perhaps the best answer is high-qualitydividend stocks. By "high-quality," I mean dividend stocks with solid underlying businesses, exceptional track records, and strong moats. Several stocks check off all of those boxes. However, I think a handful stand out in particular. Here are my picks for the three best dividend stocks to buy and hold forever. Image source: Getty Images. Warren Buffett has held shares ofThe Coca-Cola Company(KO0.50%)inBerkshire Hathaway's(BRKA1.06%)(BRKB0.95%)portfolio for longer than any other stock. That's saying something, considering Buffett has stated that his "favorite holding period is forever." Coca-Cola is a member of theDividend Kings, a group of stocks that have increased their dividends for at least 50 consecutive years. The beverage giant's streak of dividend hikes currently stands at 64. Income investors get an attractive yield of 2.7% with that record, too. This Card Just Received a Rare 5-Star Rating Our team of credit card pros don’t just recommend this card—they actually use it. Motley Fool Money calls it a top pick for a reason. Buffett has owned Coke for so long for one simple reason: the company has an exceptionally resilient underlying business. He wrote to Berkshire shareholders a few years ago about Coca-Cola, "When you find a truly wonderful business, stick with it." Coca-Cola's brand ranks among the most valuable in the world. Despite shifts in consumer preferences over the decades, Coke retains a loyal customer base. With its history dating back to 1886, this company is built to last. When our analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all,Stock Advisor’stotal average return is968%*— a market-crushing outperformance compared to202%for the S&P 500. They just revealed what they believe are the10 best stocksfor investors to buy right now,available when you joinStock Advisor. *Stock Advisor returns as of May 5, 2026. Johnson & Johnson(JNJ1.33%)shares a lot in common with Coca-Cola. For starters, it's also a Dividend King. J&J also recently announced its 64th consecutive annual dividend increase. Its dividend yield of 2.4% is in the ballpark of Coke's, too. The similarities don't stop there. Johnson & Johnson was founded in 1886 -- just like Coca-Cola. While the company has been highly successful, it has also faced serious challenges through the years, including the Tylenol scare of 1982 and opioid-related litigation that ended up costing billions of dollars to settle. Of course, Johnson & Johnson's business model is much different than Coca-Cola's. J&J ranks as one of theworld's largest healthcare companies by market cap. It markets multiple blockbuster drugs and a long lineup of successful medical devices. I think the most compelling reason Johnson & Johnson is a great dividend stock to buy and hold forever is that the company has proven its ability to survive and thrive amid a rapidly changing healthcare landscape. J&J continues to innovate, as evidenced by its 100-program development pipeline and its steady stream of new medtech product launches. Enbridge(ENB0.20%)could be a surprising choice to make the list. It isn't a Dividend King. The company operates in the often volatile energy sector. Enbridge isn't even based in the U.S.; it's headquartered in Calgary, Alberta, Canada. However, this stock has much to offer income investors. A juicy dividend yield of 5.3% tops the list. And while Enbridge hasn't increased its dividend for 64 consecutive years like Coca-Cola and Johnson & Johnson, its 31-year streak of dividend hikes isn't too shabby. Enbridge is also much less volatile than most energy stocks. That's partly because the company focuses on the midstream part of the energy sector. Its thousands of miles of pipelines generate steady revenue regardless of how the prices of oil and gas flowing through them fluctuate. But Enbridge is a "boring"utility stock, too. Thanks to acquisitions over the past few years, it's the largest natural gas utility in North America by volume. The company has met or exceeded its financial guidance for 20 consecutive years, a nearly unheard-of feat. Enbridge also has clear visibility for future growth, with roughly $50 billion of opportunities identified through the end of the decade. I don't see the need for Enbridge's pipelines and other assets to disappear in my lifetime. This stock is quite different from Coke and J&J, but like both of those blue chip stars, it's one to buy and never sell.      Before you buy stock inEnbridge, consider this: The Motley FoolStock Advisoranalyst team just identified what they believe are the10 best stocksfor investors to buy now… andEnbridgewasn’t one of them.Generational wealth is rarely built on a single hot stock pick — it’s built on a resilient, diversified foundation designed to compound for decades. If your goal is to pursue true generational wealth, you’ll want to see the 10 stocks our analysts believe are the best to buy now. Consider whenNetflixmade this list on December 17, 2004... if you invested $1,000 at the time of our recommendation,you’d have $496,473!*Or whenNvidiamade this list on April 15, 2005... if you invested $1,000 at the time of our recommendation,you’d have $1,216,605!* That’s the power of choosing a handful of potential long‑term winners and letting time do the heavy lifting. Today,Stock Advisor’s total average return is968% — a market-crushing outperformance compared to202%for the S&P 500. If your goal is to start building true generational wealth, don’t miss the latest top 10 list available withStock Advisor, and take your next step toward a portfolio that can benefit not just you, but your family for years to come. See the 10 stocks › *Stock Advisor returns as of May 5, 2026.  Keith Speightshas positions in Berkshire Hathaway and Enbridge. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Berkshire Hathaway and Enbridge. The Motley Fool recommends Johnson & Johnson. The Motley Fool has adisclosure policy. This tech could reach $80 trillion. Imagine a technology worth over35 Amazons. What in the world could be worth 35 Amazons? The answer is a radical tech breakthrough that our experts think is transforming every walk of life. And this giant leap forward has many on Wall Street very excited. Continue ›  *Average returns of all recommendations since inception. Cost basis and return based on previous market day close. This Card Just Received a Rare 5-Star Rating Our team of credit card pros don’t just recommend this card—they actually use it. Motley Fool Money calls it a top pick for a reason. Invest better with The Motley Fool. Get stock recommendations, portfolio guidance, and more from The Motley Fool's premium services. Making the world smarter, happier, and richer. ©1995-2026The Motley Fool. All rights reserved. Market data powered byXigniteandPolygon.io. About The Motley Fool Our Services Around the Globe Free Tools Affiliates & Friends