Title: America’s Fastest-Growing Breakfast Chain Has Fans and Haters
Date: 2026-05-04 12:45
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/america-fastest-growing-breakfast-chain-124552135.html?.tsrc=rss

Oops, something went wrong Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Spirit Airlines is gone. Here are the low-cost airlines filling the gap. Court documents show Musk warned OpenAI execs they would become 'the most hated men in America' days before the trial began Palantir beats earnings expectations, with revenue rising 85% on booming US business Dow, S&P 500, Nasdaq drop, oil surges as Middle East attacks escalate GameStop’s CEO dodged questions on funding the deal, leaving investors uneasy Dow sags while S&P 500, Nasdaq waver as Hormuz tensions rise Why trade deficits under Trump are so difficult to understand (and so easy to spin) Buying record highs looks riskier in the Nasdaq and Russell 2000 than in the broader market Would a gas tax holiday lower prices? What drivers should know. Wall Street sees more market gains as strong earnings fuel the AI trade The April jobs report and more major first quarter results await investors this week. April added roughly $1.2 trillion to Alphabet’s market value, or just over 50 times Google’s IPO valuation. Toto Wolff on Mercedes F1's dominant start, the 'outstanding' Kimi Antonelli, and why vulnerability is a leader's 'superpower' The average cost of college in 2026 (and how to pay for it) Network shakeups hit Medicare Advantage, forcing retirees to pay up or find new care Jerome Powell's Fed years were an everything rally The Iran War almost upended spring homebuying, but so far the market is showing 'surprising resilience' Berkshire Hathaway's profits double as shareholders gather for the annual meeting in Omaha (Associated Press) Bankrupt carrier Spirit Airlines ceased operations Saturday, the industry's first closure linked to the Iran war. If Spirit Airlines shuts down, travel chaos could ramp up. Here's how to protect your summer travel plans. The S&P 500 and Nasdaq jumped to record highs as the AI trade fueled a tech rally The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq advanced after hitting record highs as earnings rolled in Apple's earnings beat is part of an amazing trend AI developers are snapping up Mac minis, sparking a shortage that could drag on for months Apple beats earnings estimates on strong iPhone and China sales Dow jumps 750 points, S&P 500 and Nasdaq notch record highs to end the best month for stocks since 2020 The AI earnings bonanza is splitting investors Trump bets Hormuz blockade will break Iran before triggering a global crisis US stocks climb as economic updates, solid earnings roll in and Big Techs buoy AI hopes Nvidia has powered one third of the Mag 7's bull market gains Results from four Big Tech companies showed combined AI spending reaching an eye-popping $725 billion this year. Microsoft tops earnings estimates, says AI business up 123% year over year Meta stock falls despite earnings beat as AI spending plans spook investors Alphabet earnings top estimates on strong Google Cloud growth The Dow and S&P 500 slipped as oil surged, with Big Tech earnings on deck Powell will stay on as governor, says he has no choice amid legal attacks on Fed Powell holds what is expected to be his final press conference as chair after the Fed keeps rates steady Fed holds interest rates steady with no end to Iran war in sight Elon Musk testified again in the OpenAI trial, describing his behavior at the company and its nonprofit 'halo' A Senate committee confirmed Kevin Warsh, sending his nomination to be chairman of the Fed to the full Senate Stocks slipped at the open as investors awaited a Fed decision and Big Tech earnings The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq dropped as chip stocks sank and oil rose S&P 500 and Nasdaq sink, Dow rises as OpenAI-linked stocks falter and UAE exits OPEC The United Arab Emirates will leave OPEC+ effective May 1 The only number that matters for 'Magnificent 7' earnings this week The S&P 500 and Nasdaq notched fresh records, while oil edged higher as markets weighed Iran peace odds Gasoline prices are expected to turn higher as oil holds above $100 per barrel amid uncertainty over the US-Iran war US stocks open mixed as markets brace for a big week of Big Tech earnings. The rapid run-up in chip stocks has reignited the AI trade as the S&P 500 and Nasdaq sit at record highs. Americans are feeling less confident about their retirement savings. Here are some of the best ways to get started early. (Bloomberg) -- First Watch Restaurant Group Inc. is growing faster than any other sit-down chain in the US, betting big on breakfast at a time when competitors are struggling to attract early risers. Wall Street analysts love the stock. Most Read from Bloomberg China’s Unprecedented Defiance of US Sanctions Triggers Showdown Beijing Tells China Firms to Ignore US Sanctions on Refiners Former NYC Mayor Giuliani in Critical Condition, Trump Says Supertanker Appears to Have Crossed the Strait of Hormuz World’s Largest Container Carrier Plans Route Avoiding Hormuz Investors don’t. The shares have sunk roughly 50% from a 2024 record, weighed down by broader concerns about whether cash-strapped consumers will keep eating out and the company missing some expectations. Meanwhile, analysts tout its rapid pace of store openings and steady sales growth at existing locations. They also like that the chain has wealthier customers who dine on $14 avocado toast and $13 quinoa bowls for breakfast — a part of the day that has been difficult for many competitors as Americans eat less in the morning. The disconnect between that enthusiasm and investors’ skittishness is puzzling analysts such as Andy Barish of Jefferies. “They have a nice growth opportunity in front of them that isn’t being recognized in the current valuation,” said Barish, who has a buy rating on the shares and expects them to jump about 70% over the next 12 months. Much of the market’s angst, according to Barish, can be tied to underwhelming sales and profit guidance issued in February, which spurred a record one-day drop that he sees as an overreaction. There are also bigger worries about the sector. “People are concerned that breakfast-brunch is more of a discretionary occasion, and whether or not there is additional competition entering the category,” Barish said. Investors will learn more about First Watch on Tuesday when the chain reports its first-quarter results before the market opens. One of its big challenges is to escape the negative sentiment on restaurants, given that consumer confidence is in the gutter amid inflation worries, especially higher gas prices driven by the conflict in the Middle East. Popular chains like McDonald’s Corp. have also warned that Americans are increasingly pulling back on breakfast, and casual dining rivals with more expansive menus and operating hours remain a threat to market share. The tough environment puts a number of options on the table for First Watch, even becoming an acquisition target, analysts say. Wall Street pared back short-term expectations on the chain in response to the uninspiring outlook: the average earnings per share estimate for the current quarter has plunged 97% since Feb. 24, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Assumptions for earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization are down about 4% in that same period. Still, the stock is well-loved on Wall Street. First Watch has 12 buy-equivalent ratings with just one hold and zero sells. The average 12-month price target of $19.33 implies an almost 50% climb from where the shares closed on Friday. On a recent weekday morning at a First Watch in Union, New Jersey — about 30 minutes outside Manhattan — country music drowned out nearby highway traffic. The diner vibe had walls adorned with polished tractor seats, cast iron pans and a big picture of a deer in a brook. The menu included $15 bacon, egg and cheese sandwiches with arugula and kale-based juice for about $6. That kind of elevated food paired with what analysts describe as better service than competitors boosted First Watch’s sales 20% to $1.2 billion in 2025, marking a doubling in four years. The company, which was founded in 1983 and had an initial public offering in 2021, added about 60 locations last year — an 11% increase and the most among US full-service chains, according to researcher Technomic. “A lot of restaurants have gotten away from the core of good service, good food,” Stephens analyst Jim Salera said. “At the end of the day, you can put bells and whistles on your menu and have this collab with XYZ movie brand or whatever; people go to restaurants for good food and good service.” First Watch’s formula leans toward simplicity. Its more than 600 locations counter much of the industry’s push to increase complexity by selling more kinds of food at various parts of the day. It’s only open from 7 a.m. to 2:30 p.m., allowing the chain to focus on breakfast and brunch and running just one shift keeps a lid on costs. More people working from home after the pandemic has also boosted weekday visits and helped growth, according to the company. The food is a step up from competitors, but customers don’t spend much more. First Watch has an average transaction of $45, according to Bloomberg Second Measure data, placing it about 10% above IHOP, Denny’s and similar chains. Analysts say First Watch’s advantage in customer service is helped by lower employee turnover because its single daytime shift offers more stable hours than other chains. Executives point to it also being helped by a health halo because of ingredients such as cage-free eggs and organic greens and locations that don’t have deep fryers, heat lamps or microwaves. All that has the company, based in Bradenton, Florida, planning to add a similar amount of stores this year. The chain’s growth is surprising given that total revenue for chain restaurants in the US fell 1% in 2025 and a steeper drop is projected this year, according to researcher IBISWorld. Other publicly held sit-down breakfast chains are struggling. Cracker Barrel is trying to reverse sales declines and has slowed openings. IHOP, owned by Dine Brands, is also experiencing weakening demand. First Watch’s food has won over customers such as Dr. Patricia Peterson-Bland. The 68 year old, who had just finished breakfast at the New Jersey location, said she also preferred the chain because it’s clean and has a professional waitstaff. She sees it as a place that can be for a midweek breakfast or a special brunch with her grandson. That’s exactly what Chris Tomasso, First Watch’s chief executive officer, is trying to accomplish. The chain aims to be as good as the best brunch place in town, while also being affordable enough to draw more visits. “If you think about that pendulum, we want to sit right in the middle where we get the frequency, but the food quality is such that it matches any local, chef-driven brunch,” Tomasso told investors in March. “We want a more frequent occasion.” Now he has to convince investors of that. Most Read from Bloomberg Businessweek America’s Go-To Autism Therapy Is Also the Most Controversial It’s Boating Season, But Only If You Can Afford Fuel Whatnot Has Americans Hooked on Livestream Shopping Ready or Not, the AI Phones Are Coming Running America’s Second-Busiest Airport in Turbulent Times ©2026 Bloomberg L.P. Weʼre unable to load stories right now. Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Sign in to access your portfolio