Title: Countdown to McDonald's (MCD) Q1 Earnings: A Look at Estimates Beyond Revenue and EPS
Date: 2026-05-04 13:15
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/countdown-mcdonalds-mcd-q1-earnings-131502259.html?.tsrc=rss

Oops, something went wrong Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Spirit Airlines is gone. Here are the low-cost airlines filling the gap. Court documents show Musk warned OpenAI execs they would become 'the most hated men in America' days before the trial began Palantir beats earnings expectations, with revenue rising 85% on booming US business Dow, S&P 500, Nasdaq drop, oil surges as Middle East attacks escalate GameStop’s CEO dodged questions on funding the deal, leaving investors uneasy Dow sags while S&P 500, Nasdaq waver as Hormuz tensions rise Why trade deficits under Trump are so difficult to understand (and so easy to spin) Buying record highs looks riskier in the Nasdaq and Russell 2000 than in the broader market Would a gas tax holiday lower prices? What drivers should know. Wall Street sees more market gains as strong earnings fuel the AI trade The April jobs report and more major first quarter results await investors this week. April added roughly $1.2 trillion to Alphabet’s market value, or just over 50 times Google’s IPO valuation. Toto Wolff on Mercedes F1's dominant start, the 'outstanding' Kimi Antonelli, and why vulnerability is a leader's 'superpower' The average cost of college in 2026 (and how to pay for it) Network shakeups hit Medicare Advantage, forcing retirees to pay up or find new care Jerome Powell's Fed years were an everything rally The Iran War almost upended spring homebuying, but so far the market is showing 'surprising resilience' Berkshire Hathaway's profits double as shareholders gather for the annual meeting in Omaha (Associated Press) Bankrupt carrier Spirit Airlines ceased operations Saturday, the industry's first closure linked to the Iran war. If Spirit Airlines shuts down, travel chaos could ramp up. Here's how to protect your summer travel plans. The S&P 500 and Nasdaq jumped to record highs as the AI trade fueled a tech rally The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq advanced after hitting record highs as earnings rolled in Apple's earnings beat is part of an amazing trend AI developers are snapping up Mac minis, sparking a shortage that could drag on for months Apple beats earnings estimates on strong iPhone and China sales Dow jumps 750 points, S&P 500 and Nasdaq notch record highs to end the best month for stocks since 2020 The AI earnings bonanza is splitting investors Trump bets Hormuz blockade will break Iran before triggering a global crisis US stocks climb as economic updates, solid earnings roll in and Big Techs buoy AI hopes Nvidia has powered one third of the Mag 7's bull market gains Results from four Big Tech companies showed combined AI spending reaching an eye-popping $725 billion this year. Microsoft tops earnings estimates, says AI business up 123% year over year Meta stock falls despite earnings beat as AI spending plans spook investors Alphabet earnings top estimates on strong Google Cloud growth The Dow and S&P 500 slipped as oil surged, with Big Tech earnings on deck Powell will stay on as governor, says he has no choice amid legal attacks on Fed Powell holds what is expected to be his final press conference as chair after the Fed keeps rates steady Fed holds interest rates steady with no end to Iran war in sight Elon Musk testified again in the OpenAI trial, describing his behavior at the company and its nonprofit 'halo' A Senate committee confirmed Kevin Warsh, sending his nomination to be chairman of the Fed to the full Senate Stocks slipped at the open as investors awaited a Fed decision and Big Tech earnings The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq dropped as chip stocks sank and oil rose S&P 500 and Nasdaq sink, Dow rises as OpenAI-linked stocks falter and UAE exits OPEC The United Arab Emirates will leave OPEC+ effective May 1 The only number that matters for 'Magnificent 7' earnings this week The S&P 500 and Nasdaq notched fresh records, while oil edged higher as markets weighed Iran peace odds Gasoline prices are expected to turn higher as oil holds above $100 per barrel amid uncertainty over the US-Iran war US stocks open mixed as markets brace for a big week of Big Tech earnings. The rapid run-up in chip stocks has reignited the AI trade as the S&P 500 and Nasdaq sit at record highs. Americans are feeling less confident about their retirement savings. Here are some of the best ways to get started early. Analysts on Wall Street project that McDonald's (MCD) will announce quarterly earnings of $2.75 per share in its forthcoming report, representing an increase of 3% year over year. Revenues are projected to reach $6.49 billion, increasing 8.9% from the same quarter last year. The consensus EPS estimate for the quarter has been revised 0.6% higher over the last 30 days to the current level. This reflects how the analysts covering the stock have collectively reevaluated their initial estimates during this timeframe. Before a company announces its earnings, it is essential to take into account any changes made to earnings estimates. This is a valuable factor in predicting the potential reactions of investors toward the stock. Empirical research has consistently shown a strong correlation between trends in earnings estimate revisions and the short-term price performance of a stock. While investors usually depend on consensus earnings and revenue estimates to assess the business performance for the quarter, delving into analysts' forecasts for certain key metrics often provides a more comprehensive understanding. Given this perspective, it's time to examine the average forecasts of specific McDonald's metrics that are routinely monitored and predicted by Wall Street analysts. Analysts forecast 'Revenues- Company-owned and operated sales- Total' to reach $2.33 billion. The estimate points to a change of +9.2% from the year-ago quarter. The collective assessment of analysts points to an estimated 'Revenues- Franchised revenues- Total' of $4.00 billion. The estimate suggests a change of +9.3% year over year. According to the collective judgment of analysts, 'Revenues- Company-owned and operated sales- International Operated Markets' should come in at $1.47 billion. The estimate suggests a change of +12.4% year over year. Based on the collective assessment of analysts, 'Revenues- Company-owned and operated sales- International Developmental Licensed Markets & Corporate' should arrive at $120.17 million. The estimate points to a change of +21.4% from the year-ago quarter. Analysts predict that the 'Comparable sales growth - International Developmental Licensed Markets & Corporate - YoY change' will reach 4.2%. The estimate compares to the year-ago value of 3.5%. The average prediction of analysts places 'Systemwide restaurants - Total Systemwide' at 45,703 . Compared to the present estimate, the company reported 43,756 in the same quarter last year. Analysts' assessment points toward 'Systemwide restaurants - Total International Developmental Licensed Markets & Corporate' reaching 21,074 . The estimate is in contrast to the year-ago figure of 19,648 . Analysts expect 'Systemwide restaurants - Total International Operated Markets' to come in at 10,909 . The estimate is in contrast to the year-ago figure of 10,539 . The combined assessment of analysts suggests that 'Systemwide restaurants - Total U.S.' will likely reach 13,722 . Compared to the present estimate, the company reported 13,569 in the same quarter last year. It is projected by analysts that the 'Systemwide restaurants - Total Franchised' will reach 43,660 . Compared to the present estimate, the company reported 41,720 in the same quarter last year. The consensus estimate for 'Systemwide restaurants - Company-owned and operated' stands at 2,043 . Compared to the current estimate, the company reported 2,036 in the same quarter of the previous year. The consensus among analysts is that 'Systemwide restaurants - Franchised - Conventional franchised' will reach 22,653 . Compared to the current estimate, the company reported 22,126 in the same quarter of the previous year. View all Key Company Metrics for McDonald's here>>> Over the past month, shares of McDonald's have returned -6.7% versus the Zacks S&P 500 composite's +10% change. Currently, MCD carries a Zacks Rank #3 (Hold), suggesting that its performance may align with the overall market in the near future. You can see the complete list of today's Zacks Rank #1 (Strong Buy) stocks here >>>> . Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days.Click to get this free report McDonald's Corporation (MCD) : Free Stock Analysis Report This article originally published on Zacks Investment Research (zacks.com). Zacks Investment Research Weʼre unable to load stories right now. Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Sign in to access your portfolio