Title: ProPetro Holding Posts Narrower-Than-Expected Q1 Loss, Sales Beat
Date: 2026-05-04 14:11
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/propetro-holding-posts-narrower-expected-141100290.html?.tsrc=rss

Oops, something went wrong Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Spirit Airlines is gone. Here are the low-cost airlines filling the gap. Court documents show Musk warned OpenAI execs they would become 'the most hated men in America' days before the trial began Palantir beats earnings expectations, with revenue rising 85% on booming US business Dow, S&P 500, Nasdaq drop, oil surges as Middle East attacks escalate GameStop’s CEO dodged questions on funding the deal, leaving investors uneasy Dow sags while S&P 500, Nasdaq waver as Hormuz tensions rise Why trade deficits under Trump are so difficult to understand (and so easy to spin) Buying record highs looks riskier in the Nasdaq and Russell 2000 than in the broader market Would a gas tax holiday lower prices? What drivers should know. Wall Street sees more market gains as strong earnings fuel the AI trade The April jobs report and more major first quarter results await investors this week. April added roughly $1.2 trillion to Alphabet’s market value, or just over 50 times Google’s IPO valuation. Toto Wolff on Mercedes F1's dominant start, the 'outstanding' Kimi Antonelli, and why vulnerability is a leader's 'superpower' The average cost of college in 2026 (and how to pay for it) Network shakeups hit Medicare Advantage, forcing retirees to pay up or find new care Jerome Powell's Fed years were an everything rally The Iran War almost upended spring homebuying, but so far the market is showing 'surprising resilience' Berkshire Hathaway's profits double as shareholders gather for the annual meeting in Omaha (Associated Press) Bankrupt carrier Spirit Airlines ceased operations Saturday, the industry's first closure linked to the Iran war. If Spirit Airlines shuts down, travel chaos could ramp up. Here's how to protect your summer travel plans. The S&P 500 and Nasdaq jumped to record highs as the AI trade fueled a tech rally The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq advanced after hitting record highs as earnings rolled in Apple's earnings beat is part of an amazing trend AI developers are snapping up Mac minis, sparking a shortage that could drag on for months Apple beats earnings estimates on strong iPhone and China sales Dow jumps 750 points, S&P 500 and Nasdaq notch record highs to end the best month for stocks since 2020 The AI earnings bonanza is splitting investors Trump bets Hormuz blockade will break Iran before triggering a global crisis US stocks climb as economic updates, solid earnings roll in and Big Techs buoy AI hopes Nvidia has powered one third of the Mag 7's bull market gains Results from four Big Tech companies showed combined AI spending reaching an eye-popping $725 billion this year. Microsoft tops earnings estimates, says AI business up 123% year over year Meta stock falls despite earnings beat as AI spending plans spook investors Alphabet earnings top estimates on strong Google Cloud growth The Dow and S&P 500 slipped as oil surged, with Big Tech earnings on deck Powell will stay on as governor, says he has no choice amid legal attacks on Fed Powell holds what is expected to be his final press conference as chair after the Fed keeps rates steady Fed holds interest rates steady with no end to Iran war in sight Elon Musk testified again in the OpenAI trial, describing his behavior at the company and its nonprofit 'halo' A Senate committee confirmed Kevin Warsh, sending his nomination to be chairman of the Fed to the full Senate Stocks slipped at the open as investors awaited a Fed decision and Big Tech earnings The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq dropped as chip stocks sank and oil rose S&P 500 and Nasdaq sink, Dow rises as OpenAI-linked stocks falter and UAE exits OPEC The United Arab Emirates will leave OPEC+ effective May 1 The only number that matters for 'Magnificent 7' earnings this week The S&P 500 and Nasdaq notched fresh records, while oil edged higher as markets weighed Iran peace odds Gasoline prices are expected to turn higher as oil holds above $100 per barrel amid uncertainty over the US-Iran war US stocks open mixed as markets brace for a big week of Big Tech earnings. The rapid run-up in chip stocks has reignited the AI trade as the S&P 500 and Nasdaq sit at record highs. Americans are feeling less confident about their retirement savings. Here are some of the best ways to get started early. ProPetro Holding Corp.PUMP reported first-quarter 2026 adjusted loss per share of 3 cents, narrower than the Zacks Consensus Estimate of a loss of 12 cents. This performance was primarily backed by disciplined cost management. However, the bottom line declined from the year-ago quarter’s reported figure of 9 cents profit. This underperformance could be primarily attributed to weak pricing and reduced activity in the reported quarter. Revenues of $271 million marginally beat the consensus mark of $270 million. This outperformance can be attributed to $2.2 million in revenues generated by the Power Generation segment, along with stronger-than-expected service revenues in the Wireline segment, which totaled $61.8 million — 12% above the consensus estimate. However, the top line decreased 24.5% from the year-ago quarter’s level of $359 million. This was due to a year-over-year decline in service revenues from the Hydraulic Fracturing and Cementing segment. ProPetro Holding Corp. price-consensus-eps-surprise-chart | ProPetro Holding Corp. Quote Adjusted EBITDA totaled $36 million, down 29% from $51 million in the prior quarter. The metric represented 13% of revenues. The decline was primarily caused by lower revenues resulting from weather-related activity disruptions. ProPetro conducts its business through four operating segments: Hydraulic Fracturing, Wireline, Cementing and Power Generation. The hydraulic fracturing operations account for approximately 66% of the company’s total revenues and operations. During the first quarter, Service revenues from this unit decreased 12% to $179.3 million from the previous quarter’s level. Moreover, the figure missed our estimate of $198.4 million. Wireline revenues totaled $61.8 million, up 11.5% from the previous quarter. Cementing revenues totaled $27.8 million, down 5.9% sequentially. Wireline revenues beat our estimate of $45.1 million, while cementing revenues came in slightly below our projection of $27.9 million. Meanwhile, power generation revenues came in at $2.2 million, surging 60.2% from the prior quarter. Moreover, the figure beat our estimate of $0.7 million. Adjusted EBITDA from hydraulic fracturing was $37 million, down 29.9% from the previous quarter, while wireline and cementing reported adjusted EBITDA of $13.7 million and $2.1 million, declining 10.6% and 42.8% sequentially, respectively. The power generation business posted an adjusted EBITDA loss of $5.3 million as PROPWR continues to scale. Total costs and expenses were $211.7 million for the first quarter, which was down 20.3% from the prior-year quarter’s level. The cost of services (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) was $211.7 million compared with $263.9 million in the prior-year quarter. On the other hand, depreciation and amortization were reduced 16.6% to $40.6 million from the prior-year quarter's level. Capital expenditures paid were $43 million, while capital expenditures incurred totaled $85 million. Of the incurred capital expenditures, approximately $14 million supported maintenance in the completions business, while around $71 million supported PROPWR orders. As of March 31, 2026, ProPetro had $156.6 million in cash and cash equivalents. Borrowings under the financing agreement with Caterpillar Financial Services Corporation were $112 million. Total liquidity was $289 million, including cash and $132 million of available borrowing capacity under the ABL Credit Facility. Long-term debt amounted to $78.6 million. The total debt-to-total capital was 7.4%. Net cash provided by operating activities was $3 million, down from $81 million in the prior quarter. The decline was mainly due to lower adjusted EBITDA and working capital headwinds, which consumed approximately $32 million in cash during the quarter. For 2026, ProPetro now expects capital expenditures incurred to be in the range of $540-$610 million, up from the previous outlook of $390-$435 million. ProPetro’s completions business is expected to account for $140-$160 million, including $40-$50 million related to planned lease buyouts for a portion of its FORCE electric fleet portfolio. The company anticipates PROPWR capital expenditures of approximately $400-$450 million in 2026. The increase is primarily tied to down payments for future deliveries associated with the Caterpillar framework agreement. However, these estimates do not reflect the impact of financing arrangements, which are expected to reduce near-term cash outflows. For the second quarter, ProPetro expects to operate approximately 12 active frac fleets, reflecting early signs of recovery and heightened activity in the Permian completions market. Management noted that the strengthening commodity environment is beginning to support improved pricing and demand across the completions business. ProPetro expects PROPWR to begin delivering positive and increasingly meaningful earnings in the second half of 2026 as deployments scale across contracted customers. Management also cited improving completions market conditions, supported by a stronger commodity backdrop and tightening frac equipment supply.  The company remains focused on disciplined execution, capital efficiency and maintaining a strong balance sheet while funding PROPWR’s growth. PUMP currently carries a Zacks Rank #3 (Hold). You can see the complete list of today’s Zacks #1 Rank (Strong Buy) stocks here. The company made notable progress in its PROPWR business during the quarter. ProPetro entered into a strategic framework agreement with Caterpillar Inc., securing access to up to approximately 2.1 gigawatts of additional power generation capacity over the next five years. Including approximately 550 megawatts previously ordered, PROPWR is positioned to have roughly 2.6 gigawatts of power generation capacity delivered by year-end 2031 and fully deployed in 2032. The company also reported major advancements representing several hundred megawatts of high-potential data center opportunities in a select portion of its commercial pipeline. Additionally, ProPetro is in advanced contract negotiations for approximately 100 megawatts to support oil and gas microgrid projects, with deployments expected later this year. Management stated that PROPWR currently has approximately 240 megawatts committed under contract and expects to secure additional contracts throughout 2026, with future megawatts likely concentrated in data center and industrial applications. While we have discussed PUMP’s first-quarter results in detail, let us take a look at three other key reports in this space. Houston, TX-based oil and gas equipment and services provider, Halliburton CompanyHAL, posted first-quarter 2026 adjusted net income per share of 55 cents, beating the Zacks Consensus Estimate of 49 cents. The outperformance primarily reflects successful cost reduction initiatives. However, the bottom line fell from the year-ago adjusted profit of 60 cents. Halliburton reported first-quarter capital expenditure of $192 million. As of March 31, 2026, this Houston, TX-based oil and gas equipment and services company had approximately $2 billion in cash/cash equivalents and $7.1 billion in long-term debt, representing a debt-to-capitalization ratio of 39.6. Houston, TX-based oil and gas storage and transportation company,Kinder Morgan Inc.KMI, posted first-quarter 2026 adjusted earnings per share of 48 cents, which beat the Zacks Consensus Estimate of 38 cents. The bottom line increased year over year from 34 cents. The strong quarterly results can be primarily attributed to contributions from the Natural Gas Pipelines business segment. As of March 31, 2026, KMI reported $72 million in cash and cash equivalents. At the quarter's end, its long-term debt amounted to $29.72 billion. KMI’s project backlog was reported at $10.1 billion by the end of the first quarter. The midstream energy major added that natural gas projects comprise approximately 92% of its project backlog, with nearly 60% dedicated to supporting local distribution companies and power generation. Fort Worth, TX-based oil and gas exploration and production company,Range Resources CorporationRRC, posted first-quarter 2026 adjusted earnings of $1.52 per share, which beat the Zacks Consensus Estimate of $1.33. The bottom line also improved from the prior-year level of 96 cents. Strong quarterly results can be attributed to higher gas-equivalent production and increased natural gas price realization. Drilling and completion expenditure totaled $130 million. An additional $5 million was spent on acreage and $4 million on infrastructure and other investments. At the end of the first quarter, Range Resources reported a total debt of $819.3 million, net of deferred financing costs. Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days.Click to get this free report Halliburton Company (HAL) : Free Stock Analysis Report Range Resources Corporation (RRC) : Free Stock Analysis Report Kinder Morgan, Inc. (KMI) : Free Stock Analysis Report ProPetro Holding Corp. (PUMP) : Free Stock Analysis Report This article originally published on Zacks Investment Research (zacks.com). Zacks Investment Research Weʼre unable to load stories right now. Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Sign in to access your portfolio