Title: Equinor Signs $1.8 Billion in Drilling Deals to Keep Oil and Gas Output High
Date: 2026-05-04 15:30
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/sectors/energy/articles/equinor-signs-1-8-billion-153000777.html?.tsrc=rss

Oops, something went wrong Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Spirit Airlines is gone. Here are the low-cost airlines filling the gap. Court documents show Musk warned OpenAI execs they would become 'the most hated men in America' days before the trial began Palantir beats earnings expectations, with revenue rising 85% on booming US business Dow, S&P 500, Nasdaq drop, oil surges as Middle East attacks escalate GameStop’s CEO dodged questions on funding the deal, leaving investors uneasy Dow sags while S&P 500, Nasdaq waver as Hormuz tensions rise Why trade deficits under Trump are so difficult to understand (and so easy to spin) Buying record highs looks riskier in the Nasdaq and Russell 2000 than in the broader market Would a gas tax holiday lower prices? What drivers should know. Wall Street sees more market gains as strong earnings fuel the AI trade The April jobs report and more major first quarter results await investors this week. April added roughly $1.2 trillion to Alphabet’s market value, or just over 50 times Google’s IPO valuation. Toto Wolff on Mercedes F1's dominant start, the 'outstanding' Kimi Antonelli, and why vulnerability is a leader's 'superpower' The average cost of college in 2026 (and how to pay for it) Network shakeups hit Medicare Advantage, forcing retirees to pay up or find new care Jerome Powell's Fed years were an everything rally The Iran War almost upended spring homebuying, but so far the market is showing 'surprising resilience' Berkshire Hathaway's profits double as shareholders gather for the annual meeting in Omaha (Associated Press) Bankrupt carrier Spirit Airlines ceased operations Saturday, the industry's first closure linked to the Iran war. If Spirit Airlines shuts down, travel chaos could ramp up. Here's how to protect your summer travel plans. The S&P 500 and Nasdaq jumped to record highs as the AI trade fueled a tech rally The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq advanced after hitting record highs as earnings rolled in Apple's earnings beat is part of an amazing trend AI developers are snapping up Mac minis, sparking a shortage that could drag on for months Apple beats earnings estimates on strong iPhone and China sales Dow jumps 750 points, S&P 500 and Nasdaq notch record highs to end the best month for stocks since 2020 The AI earnings bonanza is splitting investors Trump bets Hormuz blockade will break Iran before triggering a global crisis US stocks climb as economic updates, solid earnings roll in and Big Techs buoy AI hopes Nvidia has powered one third of the Mag 7's bull market gains Results from four Big Tech companies showed combined AI spending reaching an eye-popping $725 billion this year. Microsoft tops earnings estimates, says AI business up 123% year over year Meta stock falls despite earnings beat as AI spending plans spook investors Alphabet earnings top estimates on strong Google Cloud growth The Dow and S&P 500 slipped as oil surged, with Big Tech earnings on deck Powell will stay on as governor, says he has no choice amid legal attacks on Fed Powell holds what is expected to be his final press conference as chair after the Fed keeps rates steady Fed holds interest rates steady with no end to Iran war in sight Elon Musk testified again in the OpenAI trial, describing his behavior at the company and its nonprofit 'halo' A Senate committee confirmed Kevin Warsh, sending his nomination to be chairman of the Fed to the full Senate Stocks slipped at the open as investors awaited a Fed decision and Big Tech earnings The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq dropped as chip stocks sank and oil rose S&P 500 and Nasdaq sink, Dow rises as OpenAI-linked stocks falter and UAE exits OPEC The United Arab Emirates will leave OPEC+ effective May 1 The only number that matters for 'Magnificent 7' earnings this week The S&P 500 and Nasdaq notched fresh records, while oil edged higher as markets weighed Iran peace odds Gasoline prices are expected to turn higher as oil holds above $100 per barrel amid uncertainty over the US-Iran war US stocks open mixed as markets brace for a big week of Big Tech earnings. The rapid run-up in chip stocks has reignited the AI trade as the S&P 500 and Nasdaq sit at record highs. Americans are feeling less confident about their retirement savings. Here are some of the best ways to get started early. Equinor has extended $1.8 billion worth of drilling and well services supplier contracts as the Norwegian energy major looks to keep high oil and gas production offshore Norway and deliver stable energy volumes to Europe. Equinor is extending key supplier agreements worth a total of $1.8 billion (17 billion Norwegian crowns), by exercising one-year options under three contracts for integrated drilling and well services, as well as two-year options under 18 corporate framework agreements for specialist services linked to these deliveries, the companysaidon Monday. The local units of top oilfield services providers Baker Hughes, Halliburton, and SLB have been awarded the contracts for integrated drilling and well services. These firms and 15 other suppliers have also been awarded corporate framework agreements for specialist services. “New wells are expected to account for around 70 percent of Equinor’s production in 2035,” said Rune Nedregaard, Equinor’s senior vice president for Wells. “This involves both more wells and more well interventions, which must be delivered faster and significantly more cost-efficiently than today.” Equinor plans to drill 20 to 30 exploration wells every year, the companysaidearly this year when it was awarded 35 new production licenses on the Norwegian continental shelf in the tender for mature exploration areas. A total of 80% of the exploration will be near existing infrastructure, while 20% will explore new concepts and lesser-known areas, the Norwegian energy major said. “There is still a lot of energy left on the NCS, but we need new discoveries to curb the expected production decline,” commented Jez Averty, Equinor’s senior vice president for subsurface, the Norwegian continental shelf. “Phasing in oil and gas from new discoveries to existing infrastructure is a core task going forward,” Averty added. Despite the best exploration results in four years in 2025, Norway will need even more exploration and discoveries, as well as investment in new oil and gas projects, toreverse an expected declinein output from the late 2020s, the Norwegian Offshore Directorate said earlier this year. By Michael Kern forOilprice.com More Top Reads From Oilprice.com $125 Oil Could Tip Global Economy Into Recession UAE: OPEC Exit 'Not Directed Against Anyone' China Orders Refiners to Ignore U.S. Sanctions on Key Iranian Oil Buyers Oilprice Intelligencebrings you the signals before they become front-page news. This is the same expert analysis read by veteran traders and political advisors. Get it free, twice a week, and you'll always know why the market is moving before everyone else. You get the geopolitical intelligence, the hidden inventory data, and the market whispers that move billions - and we'll send you $389 in premium energy intelligence, on us, just for subscribing. Join 400,000+ readers today.Get access immediately by clicking here. Weʼre unable to load stories right now. Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Sign in to access your portfolio