Title: Stock Market News for May 4, 2026
Date: 2026-05-04 13:26
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/stock-market-news-may-4-132600836.html?.tsrc=rss

Oops, something went wrong Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Spirit Airlines is gone. Here are the low-cost airlines filling the gap. Court documents show Musk warned OpenAI execs they would become 'the most hated men in America' days before the trial began Palantir beats earnings expectations, with revenue rising 85% on booming US business Dow, S&P 500, Nasdaq drop, oil surges as Middle East attacks escalate GameStop’s CEO dodged questions on funding the deal, leaving investors uneasy Dow sags while S&P 500, Nasdaq waver as Hormuz tensions rise Why trade deficits under Trump are so difficult to understand (and so easy to spin) Buying record highs looks riskier in the Nasdaq and Russell 2000 than in the broader market Would a gas tax holiday lower prices? What drivers should know. Wall Street sees more market gains as strong earnings fuel the AI trade The April jobs report and more major first quarter results await investors this week. April added roughly $1.2 trillion to Alphabet’s market value, or just over 50 times Google’s IPO valuation. Toto Wolff on Mercedes F1's dominant start, the 'outstanding' Kimi Antonelli, and why vulnerability is a leader's 'superpower' The average cost of college in 2026 (and how to pay for it) Network shakeups hit Medicare Advantage, forcing retirees to pay up or find new care Jerome Powell's Fed years were an everything rally The Iran War almost upended spring homebuying, but so far the market is showing 'surprising resilience' Berkshire Hathaway's profits double as shareholders gather for the annual meeting in Omaha (Associated Press) Bankrupt carrier Spirit Airlines ceased operations Saturday, the industry's first closure linked to the Iran war. If Spirit Airlines shuts down, travel chaos could ramp up. Here's how to protect your summer travel plans. The S&P 500 and Nasdaq jumped to record highs as the AI trade fueled a tech rally The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq advanced after hitting record highs as earnings rolled in Apple's earnings beat is part of an amazing trend AI developers are snapping up Mac minis, sparking a shortage that could drag on for months Apple beats earnings estimates on strong iPhone and China sales Dow jumps 750 points, S&P 500 and Nasdaq notch record highs to end the best month for stocks since 2020 The AI earnings bonanza is splitting investors Trump bets Hormuz blockade will break Iran before triggering a global crisis US stocks climb as economic updates, solid earnings roll in and Big Techs buoy AI hopes Nvidia has powered one third of the Mag 7's bull market gains Results from four Big Tech companies showed combined AI spending reaching an eye-popping $725 billion this year. Microsoft tops earnings estimates, says AI business up 123% year over year Meta stock falls despite earnings beat as AI spending plans spook investors Alphabet earnings top estimates on strong Google Cloud growth The Dow and S&P 500 slipped as oil surged, with Big Tech earnings on deck Powell will stay on as governor, says he has no choice amid legal attacks on Fed Powell holds what is expected to be his final press conference as chair after the Fed keeps rates steady Fed holds interest rates steady with no end to Iran war in sight Elon Musk testified again in the OpenAI trial, describing his behavior at the company and its nonprofit 'halo' A Senate committee confirmed Kevin Warsh, sending his nomination to be chairman of the Fed to the full Senate Stocks slipped at the open as investors awaited a Fed decision and Big Tech earnings The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq dropped as chip stocks sank and oil rose S&P 500 and Nasdaq sink, Dow rises as OpenAI-linked stocks falter and UAE exits OPEC The United Arab Emirates will leave OPEC+ effective May 1 The only number that matters for 'Magnificent 7' earnings this week The S&P 500 and Nasdaq notched fresh records, while oil edged higher as markets weighed Iran peace odds Gasoline prices are expected to turn higher as oil holds above $100 per barrel amid uncertainty over the US-Iran war US stocks open mixed as markets brace for a big week of Big Tech earnings. The rapid run-up in chip stocks has reignited the AI trade as the S&P 500 and Nasdaq sit at record highs. Americans are feeling less confident about their retirement savings. Here are some of the best ways to get started early. U.S. stocks ended higher on Friday, with the S&P 500 and the Nasdaq ending at new all-time closing highs as oil prices eased and robust earnings lifted investors’ sentiment. However, the Dow ended in negative territory. The Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJI) slid 0.3% or 152.87 points, to close at 49,499.27 points. The S&P 500 rose 0.3%, or 21.11 points, to end at 7,230.12 points. Tech and consumer discretionary stocks were the biggest gainers. The Information Technology Select Sector SPDR (XLK) gained 1.5%. The Consumer Discretionary Select Sector SPDR (XLY) rose 0.2%. The Energy Select Sector SPDR (XLV) declined 1.3%. Eight of the 11 sectors of the benchmark index ended in negative territory. The tech-heavy Nasdaq added 0.9%, or 222.13 points, to finish at 25,114.44 points. The fear gauge, CBOE Volatility Index (VIX), was up 0.59% to 16.99. Advancers outnumbered decliners on the NYSE by a 1.18-to-1 ratio. On the Nasdaq, a 1.69-1 ratio favored advancing issues. A total of 15.27 billion shares were traded on Friday, lower than the last 20-session average of 17.64 billion. On the NYSE, there were 578 new 52-week highs and 63 new lows. On the Nasdaq, there were 132 new highs and 51 new lows. On the S&P 500, there were 45 new 52-week highs and 13 new lows. Stocks rallied on Friday to start a new month on a high. The S&P 500 and the Nasdaq closed at new all-time highs after recording their biggest monthly percentage gains in April. However, May also marks the beginning of a historically weak six-month stretch for stock markets. The S&P 500 has gained only an average 2% between May and October since 1945. Meanwhile, oil prices fell on Friday after Iran sent an amended draft agreement via Pakistani mediators to end the ongoing war with the United States. However, President Donald Trump on Friday said that he is not happy with the amendments made to the draft. The West Texas Intermediate crude futures fell 2.98% to settle at $101.94 per barrel on Friday. The first-quarter earnings season is in full swing, and investors have been closely monitoring the quarterly results. A batch of companies from the Magnificent Seven related to AI stocks reported their quarterly results last week. Friday’s rally was driven byApple, Inc.(AAPL), after the iPhone-maker posted a beat on both earnings and revenues. Apple reported second-quarter fiscal 2026 earnings of $2.01 per share, up 21.8% year over year and ahead of the Zacks Consensus Estimate by 4.7%. The iPhone maker posted revenues of $56.99 billion, up 21.7% year over year and setting a new record for the March quarter. Shares of Apple gained 3.2% on Friday. Apple currently has a Zacks Rank #3 (Hold). You can seethe complete list of today's Zacks #1 Rank (Strong Buy) stocks here. However, shares of oil companiesExxon Mobil Corporation(XOM) andChevron Corporation(CVX) both fell 1% and 1.4%, respectively, despite beating on earnings. Chevron reported first-quarter 2026 adjusted earnings per share of $1.41, beating the Zacks Consensus Estimate of $0.92 per share. Exxon reported first-quarter 2026 earnings per share of $1.16, beating the Zacks Consensus Estimate of $1.07 per share. Economic data released on Friday showed that manufacturing activity continued to expand in April. The ISM reported that its manufacturing PMI remained unchanged at a four-year high of 52.7 in April. However, the reading remained above the 50 level, which ???indicates expansion in the sector. Both the S&P 500 and the Nasdaq recorded their sixth straight week of gains. The S&P 500 ended the week 0.7% higher, while the Nasdaq was up 1.1% for the week. The Dow rose 0.5% for the week. Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days.Click to get this free report Apple Inc. (AAPL) : Free Stock Analysis Report Chevron Corporation (CVX) : Free Stock Analysis Report Exxon Mobil Corporation (XOM) : Free Stock Analysis Report This article originally published on Zacks Investment Research (zacks.com). Zacks Investment Research Weʼre unable to load stories right now. Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Sign in to access your portfolio