Title: Chevron vs. Exxon: Which is the Better Investment After Strong Q1 Results?
Date: 2026-05-04 23:04
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/chevron-vs-exxon-better-investment-230400633.html?.tsrc=rss

Oops, something went wrong Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Spirit Airlines is gone. Here are the low-cost airlines filling the gap. Court documents show Musk warned OpenAI execs they would become 'the most hated men in America' days before the trial began Palantir beats earnings expectations, with revenue rising 85% on booming US business Dow, S&P 500, Nasdaq drop, oil surges as Middle East attacks escalate GameStop’s CEO dodged questions on funding the deal, leaving investors uneasy Dow sags while S&P 500, Nasdaq waver as Hormuz tensions rise Why trade deficits under Trump are so difficult to understand (and so easy to spin) Buying record highs looks riskier in the Nasdaq and Russell 2000 than in the broader market Would a gas tax holiday lower prices? What drivers should know. Wall Street sees more market gains as strong earnings fuel the AI trade The April jobs report and more major first quarter results await investors this week. April added roughly $1.2 trillion to Alphabet’s market value, or just over 50 times Google’s IPO valuation. Toto Wolff on Mercedes F1's dominant start, the 'outstanding' Kimi Antonelli, and why vulnerability is a leader's 'superpower' The average cost of college in 2026 (and how to pay for it) Network shakeups hit Medicare Advantage, forcing retirees to pay up or find new care Jerome Powell's Fed years were an everything rally The Iran War almost upended spring homebuying, but so far the market is showing 'surprising resilience' Berkshire Hathaway's profits double as shareholders gather for the annual meeting in Omaha (Associated Press) Bankrupt carrier Spirit Airlines ceased operations Saturday, the industry's first closure linked to the Iran war. If Spirit Airlines shuts down, travel chaos could ramp up. Here's how to protect your summer travel plans. The S&P 500 and Nasdaq jumped to record highs as the AI trade fueled a tech rally The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq advanced after hitting record highs as earnings rolled in Apple's earnings beat is part of an amazing trend AI developers are snapping up Mac minis, sparking a shortage that could drag on for months Apple beats earnings estimates on strong iPhone and China sales Dow jumps 750 points, S&P 500 and Nasdaq notch record highs to end the best month for stocks since 2020 The AI earnings bonanza is splitting investors Trump bets Hormuz blockade will break Iran before triggering a global crisis US stocks climb as economic updates, solid earnings roll in and Big Techs buoy AI hopes Nvidia has powered one third of the Mag 7's bull market gains Results from four Big Tech companies showed combined AI spending reaching an eye-popping $725 billion this year. Microsoft tops earnings estimates, says AI business up 123% year over year Meta stock falls despite earnings beat as AI spending plans spook investors Alphabet earnings top estimates on strong Google Cloud growth The Dow and S&P 500 slipped as oil surged, with Big Tech earnings on deck Powell will stay on as governor, says he has no choice amid legal attacks on Fed Powell holds what is expected to be his final press conference as chair after the Fed keeps rates steady Fed holds interest rates steady with no end to Iran war in sight Elon Musk testified again in the OpenAI trial, describing his behavior at the company and its nonprofit 'halo' A Senate committee confirmed Kevin Warsh, sending his nomination to be chairman of the Fed to the full Senate Stocks slipped at the open as investors awaited a Fed decision and Big Tech earnings The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq dropped as chip stocks sank and oil rose S&P 500 and Nasdaq sink, Dow rises as OpenAI-linked stocks falter and UAE exits OPEC The United Arab Emirates will leave OPEC+ effective May 1 The only number that matters for 'Magnificent 7' earnings this week The S&P 500 and Nasdaq notched fresh records, while oil edged higher as markets weighed Iran peace odds Gasoline prices are expected to turn higher as oil holds above $100 per barrel amid uncertainty over the US-Iran war US stocks open mixed as markets brace for a big week of Big Tech earnings. The rapid run-up in chip stocks has reignited the AI trade as the S&P 500 and Nasdaq sit at record highs. Americans are feeling less confident about their retirement savings. Here are some of the best ways to get started early. It’s no surprise that Chevron CVX) and Exxon Mobil XOM) reported stronger-than-expected Q1 results last Friday, driven largely by elevated crude oil prices as the conflict in Iran tightened global supply. Yet beneath the headline top and bottom line beats, the two oil majors delivered very different financial profiles. Furthermore, with crude prices hovering above $100 per barrel, investors may be wondering which oil giant is the better investment for their portfolios, prompting a fresh comparison of their financial fundamentals. Image Source: Yahoo Finance  It's not necessarily a spoiler alert about which may be the better investment, but Exxon had the stronger Q1 across most key metrics, including earnings, cash flow, and shareholder returns. Exxon also has the larger revenue base, with Q1 sales increasing 2% year over year to $85.13 billion and eclipsing estimates of $81.49 billion by 4%. Meanwhile, Chevron’s Q1 sales were also up 2% to $48.6 billion and edged estimates of $47.37 billion.  1. Adjusted Earnings Exxon’s Q1 adjusted net income increased over 15% YoY to $8.8 billion, while Chevron’s decreased 28% to $2.8 billion due to a $360 million legal reserve charge and $223 million in foreign-exchange (FX) losses. Still, Chevron posted Q1 adjusted EPS of $1.41, which crushed expectations of $0.92 by 53%. As for Exxon, Q1 adjusted EPS of $1.16 beat expectations of $1.07 by 8%. Even though both companies exceeded earnings expectations, Exxon and Chevron’s Q1 EPS declined from $1.76 and $2.18 in the prior-year quarter, respectively. The drop was driven by a larger share count and significant timing-related accounting effects that reduced per-share results, even as Exxon’s underlying net income increased.  2. Cash Flow Generation Exxon produced $8.7 billion in operating cash flow in Q1, which impressively topped Chevron’s $2.5 billion. Along with the legal charges and FX losses, Chevron’s downstream business (refined products after production) swung to an $817 million loss, driven by derivative timing effects that are expected to reverse later but weighed on its Q1 operating cash flow.  3. Shareholder Returns During Q1, Exxon returned $9.2 billion to shareholders (dividends + buybacks), compared with Chevron’s $6 billion. This reflects Exxon’s stronger cash position and confidence in its financial resilience.  Although Exxon produced superior shareholder returns during Q1, Chevron has the more attractive annual dividend yield at 3.74%. However, Exxon’s 2.7% yield also tops the broader Zacks Oils and Energy sector’s 2.65% and the benchmark S&P 500’s average of 1.03%. Image Source: Zacks Investment Research  Making the conversation of which may be the better investment more intriguing is that Chevron and Exxon stock are both up a little more than 25% year to date. Taking a longer view, Exxon’s stock does have the clear edge in performance, with gains of +150% in the last five years compared to Chevron’s 76%, which has trailed the Zacks Oils and Energy sector's return of nearly 100% and the broader market’s 80%. Image Source: Zacks Investment Research Ironically, at current levels, Chevron and Exxon stock are both trading at 13X forward earnings. This is roughly on par with the Zacks Oils and Energy sector, and offers a noticeable discount to the benchmark’s 23X. Image Source: Zacks Investment Research  Exxon appears to be the steadier, stronger performer right now— with higher net income, stronger cash generation, and a deeper pipeline of high-margin projects.Chevron, meanwhile, has more of a rebound catalyst story— as its stronger-than-expected Q1 results were still weighed down by legal charges, FX losses, and a reversable downstream loss, but none of those reflect structural weakness. Exxon’s cheaper stock price may tip the scale for some investors, but Chevron’s more enticing dividend could be the deciding factor for others, especially considering their mirroring P/E valuations. Either way it goes, these oil giants are certainly worthy of consideration in the portfolio with crude prices at over $100 a barrel. For now, Chevron and Exxon stock are both sporting aZacks Rank #1 (Strong Buy). Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days.Click to get this free report Chevron Corporation (CVX) : Free Stock Analysis Report Exxon Mobil Corporation (XOM) : Free Stock Analysis Report This article originally published on Zacks Investment Research (zacks.com). Zacks Investment Research Weʼre unable to load stories right now. Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Sign in to access your portfolio