Title: Chevron Is Negotiating for a Stake in a Massive Oilfield in Iraq: 3 Key Takeaways for Investors
Date: 2026-05-04 11:41
URL: https://www.fool.com/investing/2026/05/04/chevron-is-negotiating-for-a-stake-in-a-massive-oi/?.tsrc=rss

Chevron is on pace to become a major player in petroleum-rich Iraq, and that could be appealing to long-term investors. Alone, the war in Iran is ensuring investors are consuming steady diets of headlines related to oil prices while vaulting the energy sector to the top spot amongS&P 500sectors. It's a script that's played out time and again. Conflict in the Middle East often stokes upside foroil stocks, andChevron(CVX+0.87%)is no exception. Shares of the integrated oil Goliath are up 25.11% year to date, thanks in part to the conflict in Iran as well as expectations that Venezuela's oil market will be open for business now that former President Nicolas Maduro is out of the picture. Chevron has big opportunity in Iraq, but it could take awhile to manifest in the share price. Image source: Getty Images Not to be ignored is the oil giant's new access to not one but two Iraqi fields, which could be long-term catalysts forChevron stock. Let's explore some of the prominent Iraq takeaways for Chevron investors. Perhaps to its credit, Chevron isn't overselling its Iraq opportunity set. As things stand today, the Middle East, as a region rather than just one country, accounts for only 5% of the company's total output. This Card Just Received a Rare 5-Star Rating Our team of credit card pros don’t just recommend this card—they actually use it. Motley Fool Money calls it a top pick for a reason. On the company's first-quarter earnings conference call on Friday, May 1, CEO Michael Werth acknowledged Chevron has "some opportunities in the Middle East region," adding that there are sources of interest in other areas as well.  In fact, Iraq wasn't directly mentioned on the call, but several countries were, including Angola, Argentina, and Venezuela, among others. So it's clear that Chevron isn't putting all its eggs in the basket of Iraq, a good thing for investors, and that it could take some time for the company's ventures in the country to flow through to its bottom line. When our analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all,Stock Advisor’stotal average return is968%*— a market-crushing outperformance compared to202%for the S&P 500. They just revealed what they believe are the10 best stocksfor investors to buy right now,available when you joinStock Advisor. *Stock Advisor returns as of May 5, 2026. Investors experienced with traditionalenergy stocks, including Chevron, know that the lifeblood of the exploration and production side of the oil business is the discovery of new reserves. After all, no oilfield provides infinite access to fresh barrels. In Iraq, Chevron is checking the access box in a big way. The West Qurna 2 oil field, where Chevron is replacing a Russian competitor, has estimated recoverable reserves of 13 billion barrels and accounts for 10% of Iraq's total output. The Nasiriyah oil field, where Chevron is replacing another Russian company, is the smaller of the two deals, but still significant because it has 4.36 billion in estimated recoverable reserves. With Chevron's superior operational expertise, the company's involvement in those two oilfields could put Iraq on pace to produce 6 million barrels per day or more by 2029,  bolstering its coffers and those of Chevron, too. To the surprise of no investors well versed in the oil patch, there are geopolitical implications tied to Chevron's involvement in Iran. As noted above, the company is displacing two Russian companies, which is likely to the delight of the White House. There's more. Russia is a major supplier of crude to China, and with Chevron entering Iraq, China may be forced to replace a portion of the crude it previously purchased from the Kremlin.  The White House is likely perfectly fine with that scenario, suggesting Chevron's Iraq ventures may receive long-term support from the U.S. government.     Before you buy stock inChevron, consider this: The Motley FoolStock Advisoranalyst team just identified what they believe are the10 best stocksfor investors to buy now… andChevronwasn’t one of them.Generational wealth is rarely built on a single hot stock pick — it’s built on a resilient, diversified foundation designed to compound for decades. If your goal is to pursue true generational wealth, you’ll want to see the 10 stocks our analysts believe are the best to buy now. Consider whenNetflixmade this list on December 17, 2004... if you invested $1,000 at the time of our recommendation,you’d have $496,473!*Or whenNvidiamade this list on April 15, 2005... if you invested $1,000 at the time of our recommendation,you’d have $1,216,605!* That’s the power of choosing a handful of potential long‑term winners and letting time do the heavy lifting. Today,Stock Advisor’s total average return is968% — a market-crushing outperformance compared to202%for the S&P 500. If your goal is to start building true generational wealth, don’t miss the latest top 10 list available withStock Advisor, and take your next step toward a portfolio that can benefit not just you, but your family for years to come. See the 10 stocks › *Stock Advisor returns as of May 5, 2026.  Todd Shriberhas no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Chevron. The Motley Fool has adisclosure policy. This tech could reach $80 trillion. Imagine a technology worth over18 Nvidias. What in the world could be worth 18 Nvidias? The answer is a radical tech breakthrough that our experts think is transforming every walk of life. And this giant leap forward has many on Wall Street very excited. Continue ›  *Average returns of all recommendations since inception. Cost basis and return based on previous market day close. This Card Just Received a Rare 5-Star Rating Our team of credit card pros don’t just recommend this card—they actually use it. Motley Fool Money calls it a top pick for a reason. Invest better with The Motley Fool. Get stock recommendations, portfolio guidance, and more from The Motley Fool's premium services. Making the world smarter, happier, and richer. ©1995-2026The Motley Fool. All rights reserved. Market data powered byXigniteandPolygon.io. About The Motley Fool Our Services Around the Globe Free Tools Affiliates & Friends