Title: Oil Edges Lower Following Spike as Iran and US Exchange Fire
Date: 2026-05-05 03:38
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/sectors/energy/articles/oil-holds-gain-iran-us-013714210.html?.tsrc=rss

Oops, something went wrong Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Spirit Airlines is gone. Here are the low-cost airlines filling the gap. Court documents show Musk warned OpenAI execs they would become 'the most hated men in America' days before the trial began Palantir beats earnings expectations, with revenue rising 85% on booming US business Dow, S&P 500, Nasdaq drop, oil surges as Middle East attacks escalate GameStop’s CEO dodged questions on funding the deal, leaving investors uneasy Dow sags while S&P 500, Nasdaq waver as Hormuz tensions rise Why trade deficits under Trump are so difficult to understand (and so easy to spin) Buying record highs looks riskier in the Nasdaq and Russell 2000 than in the broader market Would a gas tax holiday lower prices? What drivers should know. Wall Street sees more market gains as strong earnings fuel the AI trade The April jobs report and more major first quarter results await investors this week. April added roughly $1.2 trillion to Alphabet’s market value, or just over 50 times Google’s IPO valuation. Toto Wolff on Mercedes F1's dominant start, the 'outstanding' Kimi Antonelli, and why vulnerability is a leader's 'superpower' The average cost of college in 2026 (and how to pay for it) Network shakeups hit Medicare Advantage, forcing retirees to pay up or find new care Jerome Powell's Fed years were an everything rally The Iran War almost upended spring homebuying, but so far the market is showing 'surprising resilience' Berkshire Hathaway's profits double as shareholders gather for the annual meeting in Omaha (Associated Press) Bankrupt carrier Spirit Airlines ceased operations Saturday, the industry's first closure linked to the Iran war. If Spirit Airlines shuts down, travel chaos could ramp up. Here's how to protect your summer travel plans. The S&P 500 and Nasdaq jumped to record highs as the AI trade fueled a tech rally The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq advanced after hitting record highs as earnings rolled in Apple's earnings beat is part of an amazing trend AI developers are snapping up Mac minis, sparking a shortage that could drag on for months Apple beats earnings estimates on strong iPhone and China sales Dow jumps 750 points, S&P 500 and Nasdaq notch record highs to end the best month for stocks since 2020 The AI earnings bonanza is splitting investors Trump bets Hormuz blockade will break Iran before triggering a global crisis US stocks climb as economic updates, solid earnings roll in and Big Techs buoy AI hopes Nvidia has powered one third of the Mag 7's bull market gains Results from four Big Tech companies showed combined AI spending reaching an eye-popping $725 billion this year. Microsoft tops earnings estimates, says AI business up 123% year over year Meta stock falls despite earnings beat as AI spending plans spook investors Alphabet earnings top estimates on strong Google Cloud growth The Dow and S&P 500 slipped as oil surged, with Big Tech earnings on deck Powell will stay on as governor, says he has no choice amid legal attacks on Fed Powell holds what is expected to be his final press conference as chair after the Fed keeps rates steady Fed holds interest rates steady with no end to Iran war in sight Elon Musk testified again in the OpenAI trial, describing his behavior at the company and its nonprofit 'halo' A Senate committee confirmed Kevin Warsh, sending his nomination to be chairman of the Fed to the full Senate Stocks slipped at the open as investors awaited a Fed decision and Big Tech earnings The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq dropped as chip stocks sank and oil rose S&P 500 and Nasdaq sink, Dow rises as OpenAI-linked stocks falter and UAE exits OPEC The United Arab Emirates will leave OPEC+ effective May 1 The only number that matters for 'Magnificent 7' earnings this week The S&P 500 and Nasdaq notched fresh records, while oil edged higher as markets weighed Iran peace odds Gasoline prices are expected to turn higher as oil holds above $100 per barrel amid uncertainty over the US-Iran war US stocks open mixed as markets brace for a big week of Big Tech earnings. The rapid run-up in chip stocks has reignited the AI trade as the S&P 500 and Nasdaq sit at record highs. Americans are feeling less confident about their retirement savings. Here are some of the best ways to get started early. (Bloomberg) -- Oil edged lower, paring Monday’s gain, as traders tracked tensions in the Middle East after fresh clashes between the US and Iran. Most Read from Bloomberg China’s Unprecedented Defiance of US Sanctions Triggers Showdown US and Iran Trade Fire in Gulf, Jolting Four-Week-Old Truce Former NYC Mayor Giuliani in Critical Condition, Trump Says US Has Opened a Passage Through Hormuz, Central Command Says Beijing Tells China Firms to Ignore US Sanctions on Refiners Brent fell toward $113 a barrel, after surging 5.8% on Monday, while West Texas Intermediate was near $104. The military fought off Iranian attacks as it guided two US-flagged vessels through the Strait of Hormuz, US Central Command said. In the United Arab Emirates, an oil terminal in Fujairah was hit. The fresh round of hostilities came as the US sought to clear a path through the waterway for stranded vessels, casting doubt on the four-week ceasefire between Washington and Tehran. President Donald Trump said the war may last another two to three weeks in comments to Salem News Channel. US destroyers USS Truxtun and USS Mason had transited the strait and entered the Persian Gulf, CBS reported, citing unidentified defense officials. The vessels were supported by Apache helicopters and other aircraft and faced a series of coordinated threats during their passage, CBS said. Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth will brief reporters at the Pentagon later Tuesday, with General Dan Caine, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Brent crude has rallied by almost 90% this year as the conflict deprived the market of millions of barrels of oil, with the strait still all-but-impassable and wells shut-in around the region. The waterway has been subject to a double blockade, with Tehran seeking to prevent ships from transiting, while Washington stops boats sailing to or from the Islamic Republic. The attacks “all point to the ceasefire fraying,” said Saul Kavonic, senior energy analyst at MST Marquee. “Oil could jump materially higher if the war resumes and especially if damage to more oil infrastructure ensues.” Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi said talks with Washington were “making progress” but the US and the UAE “should be wary of being dragged back into quagmire,” according to a post on X. Events in Hormuz made clear “there’s no military solution to a political crisis,” he added. Spiking energy costs have fanned concerns the conflict will stoke inflation while hurting growth. In the US Treasury market, 30-year yields climbed to the highest since July, topping 5%, as traders boosted wagers the Federal Reserve will have to reverse course and raise rates to curb price gains. In Asia, there are similar concerns. In the Philippines, consumer prices rose 7.2% in April from a year earlier, the fastest pace in three years, according to the local statistics authority. The Southeast Asian nation typically imports nearly all of its oil needs from the Middle East. Adding to tensions on Monday, the UAE said it intercepted Iranian cruise missiles and blamed a drone strike for a large fire at Fujairah port, a key terminal that sits outside the Persian Gulf. The Gulf state issued several missile alerts to its residents for the first time since the ceasefire between Washington and Tehran began nearly a month ago. “Escalation seems to be the path,” said Carl Larry, oil and gas analyst at Enverus. “Peace is dimming and what happens during an escalation is anyone’s guess, but it won’t be good.” --With assistance from Charles Gorrivan. Most Read from Bloomberg Businessweek America’s Go-To Autism Therapy Is Also the Most Controversial Whatnot Has Americans Hooked on Livestream Shopping The Risky Pivot Inside Australia’s Pension System It’s Boating Season, But Only If You Can Afford Fuel Running America’s Second-Busiest Airport in Turbulent Times ©2026 Bloomberg L.P. Weʼre unable to load stories right now. Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Sign in to access your portfolio