Title: MPLX Gears Up to Report Q1 Earnings: What's in the Cards?
Date: 2026-05-04 14:28
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/mplx-gears-report-q1-earnings-142800607.html?.tsrc=rss

Oops, something went wrong Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Spirit Airlines is gone. Here are the low-cost airlines filling the gap. Court documents show Musk warned OpenAI execs they would become 'the most hated men in America' days before the trial began Palantir beats earnings expectations, with revenue rising 85% on booming US business Dow, S&P 500, Nasdaq drop, oil surges as Middle East attacks escalate GameStop’s CEO dodged questions on funding the deal, leaving investors uneasy Dow sags while S&P 500, Nasdaq waver as Hormuz tensions rise Why trade deficits under Trump are so difficult to understand (and so easy to spin) Buying record highs looks riskier in the Nasdaq and Russell 2000 than in the broader market Would a gas tax holiday lower prices? What drivers should know. Wall Street sees more market gains as strong earnings fuel the AI trade The April jobs report and more major first quarter results await investors this week. April added roughly $1.2 trillion to Alphabet’s market value, or just over 50 times Google’s IPO valuation. Toto Wolff on Mercedes F1's dominant start, the 'outstanding' Kimi Antonelli, and why vulnerability is a leader's 'superpower' The average cost of college in 2026 (and how to pay for it) Network shakeups hit Medicare Advantage, forcing retirees to pay up or find new care Jerome Powell's Fed years were an everything rally The Iran War almost upended spring homebuying, but so far the market is showing 'surprising resilience' Berkshire Hathaway's profits double as shareholders gather for the annual meeting in Omaha (Associated Press) Bankrupt carrier Spirit Airlines ceased operations Saturday, the industry's first closure linked to the Iran war. If Spirit Airlines shuts down, travel chaos could ramp up. Here's how to protect your summer travel plans. The S&P 500 and Nasdaq jumped to record highs as the AI trade fueled a tech rally The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq advanced after hitting record highs as earnings rolled in Apple's earnings beat is part of an amazing trend AI developers are snapping up Mac minis, sparking a shortage that could drag on for months Apple beats earnings estimates on strong iPhone and China sales Dow jumps 750 points, S&P 500 and Nasdaq notch record highs to end the best month for stocks since 2020 The AI earnings bonanza is splitting investors Trump bets Hormuz blockade will break Iran before triggering a global crisis US stocks climb as economic updates, solid earnings roll in and Big Techs buoy AI hopes Nvidia has powered one third of the Mag 7's bull market gains Results from four Big Tech companies showed combined AI spending reaching an eye-popping $725 billion this year. Microsoft tops earnings estimates, says AI business up 123% year over year Meta stock falls despite earnings beat as AI spending plans spook investors Alphabet earnings top estimates on strong Google Cloud growth The Dow and S&P 500 slipped as oil surged, with Big Tech earnings on deck Powell will stay on as governor, says he has no choice amid legal attacks on Fed Powell holds what is expected to be his final press conference as chair after the Fed keeps rates steady Fed holds interest rates steady with no end to Iran war in sight Elon Musk testified again in the OpenAI trial, describing his behavior at the company and its nonprofit 'halo' A Senate committee confirmed Kevin Warsh, sending his nomination to be chairman of the Fed to the full Senate Stocks slipped at the open as investors awaited a Fed decision and Big Tech earnings The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq dropped as chip stocks sank and oil rose S&P 500 and Nasdaq sink, Dow rises as OpenAI-linked stocks falter and UAE exits OPEC The United Arab Emirates will leave OPEC+ effective May 1 The only number that matters for 'Magnificent 7' earnings this week The S&P 500 and Nasdaq notched fresh records, while oil edged higher as markets weighed Iran peace odds Gasoline prices are expected to turn higher as oil holds above $100 per barrel amid uncertainty over the US-Iran war US stocks open mixed as markets brace for a big week of Big Tech earnings. The rapid run-up in chip stocks has reignited the AI trade as the S&P 500 and Nasdaq sit at record highs. Americans are feeling less confident about their retirement savings. Here are some of the best ways to get started early. MPLX LPMPLX is set to report first-quarter 2026 results on May 5, before the opening bell. In the last reported quarter, the large-cap master limited partnership’s adjusted earnings of $1.17 per unit beat the Zacks Consensus Estimate of $1.08 due to increased throughput in oil and product pipelines, as well as natural gas and natural gas liquids (NGL) gathering. The midstream player beat on earnings in three of the trailing four quarters and missed the mark once, delivering an average surprise of 12.6%. This is depicted in the graph below: MPLX LP price-eps-surprise | MPLX LP Quote The Zacks Consensus Estimate for first-quarter earnings per share of $1.05 has witnessed no estimate revision in the past seven days. The consensus estimate implies a decline of 4.6% from the year-ago reported number. The Zacks Consensus Estimate for revenues of $3.18 billion indicates a 1.9% increase from the year-ago reported figure. Being a midstream energy player, the partnership is likely to have generated stable fee-based revenues in the March quarter of 2026 from its asset base, which comprises pipeline networks that transport crude oil and refined products. Although largely fee-based, MPLX’s business is still indirectly impacted by oil and gas price volatility, which can affect volumes and margins. Lower oil prices at the start of the quarter may have pressured MPLX’s earnings, as lower drilling activity could have led to reduced gathering and processing volumes. MPLX is expected to have generated cash flows from its natural gas and NGL processing and fractionation facilities. However, lower natural gas prices in February and March 2026 compared with the same period of 2025 may have hampered MPLX’s natural gas and NGL services due to reduced production volumes. Our proven model does not conclusively predict an earnings beat for MPLX this time around. The combination of a positive Earnings ESP and a Zacks Rank #1 (Strong Buy), 2 (Buy) or 3 (Hold) increases the chances of an earnings beat, which is not the case here, as you will see below. Earnings ESP:MPLX has an Earnings ESP of +1.43%. You can uncover the best stocks to buy or sell before they are reported with our Earnings ESP Filter. Zacks Rank:The partnership currently carries a Zacks Rank #4 (Sell). Here is one stock that you may want to consider, as this has the right combination of elements to post an earnings beat this reporting cycle. Shell plcSHEL currently has an Earnings ESP of +3.56% and a Zacks Rank #1. You can seethe complete list of today’s Zacks #1 Rank stocks here. Shell is set to release first-quarter earnings on May 7, 2026. The Zacks Consensus Estimate for SHEL’s earnings is pegged at $1.78 per share, indicating a 3.3% decline from the prior-year reported figure. BP plcBP reported first-quarter 2026 earnings of $1.24 per American Depositary Share, which beat the Zacks Consensus Estimate of 91 cents. BP has a Zacks Rank #2 at present. As of March 31, 2026, BP reported $35.7 million in cash and cash equivalents. At the quarter's end, BP’s long-term debt amounted to $25.3 billion. Chevron CorporationCVX reported first-quarter 2026 adjusted earnings per share of $1.41, which beat the Zacks Consensus Estimate of 92 cents. CVX currently sports a Zacks Rank #1. As of March 31, 2026, Chevron reported $5.3 million in cash and cash equivalents. At the quarter's end, CVX’s total debt amounted to $45.4 billion. Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days.Click to get this free report BP p.l.c. (BP) : Free Stock Analysis Report Chevron Corporation (CVX) : Free Stock Analysis Report MPLX LP (MPLX) : Free Stock Analysis Report Shell PLC Unsponsored ADR (SHEL) : Free Stock Analysis Report This article originally published on Zacks Investment Research (zacks.com). Zacks Investment Research Weʼre unable to load stories right now. Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Sign in to access your portfolio