Title: Rising Gas Prices Could Take This Electric Vehicle (EV) Company to "Another Level"
Date: 2026-04-14 19:34
URL: https://www.fool.com/investing/2026/04/14/rising-gas-prices-could-take-this-electric-vehicle/?.tsrc=rss

BYD is seeing accelerated business in regions impacted by higher oil prices. Where art thou, growth? After quickly and impressively catchingTesla(TSLA+3.29%)in global electric vehicle (EV) sales,BYD(BYDDY+0.79%)is feeling a little pressure as its sales declined roughly 20% in March, compared to the previous year. In fact, if you're keeping track, March marks the seventh consecutive month of lower sales than the previous year for BYD, as it grapples with a price war and increased low-cost competition in its domestic Chinese market. However, there's good news for investors: Growth overseas is booming, and the rising price of oil is driving demand in some regions for cars that run on something other than gas. Briefly zooming in on the details, BYD reportedly sold just over 300,000 new-energy vehicles (NEVs) in March, which includesfull-electric vehiclesand plug-in hybrid models. That result was a welcomed 57% surge over February, but was still a year-over-year decline. With China's automotive market reeling from a pullback in government incentives, increased competition, and a brutal price war that's eroding margins, BYD is shifting into higher gears overseas to drive growth. Image source: BYD Co. In March, BYD exported 120,083 NEVs, which was a strong 65% spike over the prior year, and through the first three months of the year, BYD has sold over 321,000 NEVs overseas. Even better, this is likely just the beginning of its overseas growth story as BYD has localized production coming online and has new models launching in a long list of vehicle segments. Our experts' top-rated cash back card just got even better. For a limited time, earn a $250 bonus after spending just $500 in the first 3 months. Plus, earn unlimited cash back and pay 0% intro APR until well into 2027. Don't wait — this offer ends soon. Only three months ago, BYD believed it would sell 1.3 million NEVs overseas in 2026, and it has already bumped that estimate up 15% to 1.5 million NEVs. For context and perspective, in March roughly 40% of BYDs sales came overseas and that could realistically reach half of its total in a month or two. BYD CEO Wang Chuanfu reportedly told analysts in late March that the EV maker expects rising oil prices to drive overseas EV sales to "another level" in 2026. That, of course, was before the most recent developments in the Iran war, including a ceasefire and U.S. blockade of the Strait of Hormuz. According to Chuanfu, the automaker is selling as many vehicles in a single day as it normally would in two weeks in markets such as Australia, the Philippines, and New Zealand. Another positive indicator was found at the largest auto show in Southeast Asia, the Bangkok Motor Show, where BYD reportedly secured more orders than anyautomotive brandduring the nearly two-week event. One little-known company, called an "Indispensable Monopoly" owns the technology Nvidia, AMD, and Intel cannot function without. And it is still just a fraction of Nvidia’s size. We just released a brand-new report with the full story and the company’s name. For investors, it's fair to call seven consecutive months of year-over-year sales declines a bit concerning, but really it's more of a speed bump as the Chinese market drives toward consolidation. The silver lining is that BYD's overseas sales are quickly expanding with plenty of room to grow. Further, overseas sales for BYD are higher-margin and even with tariffs in some cases, its growth is supported by the automaker's incredibly affordable lineup. BYD stands to gain with higher oil prices lasting longer, but regardless of what happens with that, the company is positioned well for long-term overseas growth.     Before you buy stock inBYD Company, consider this: The Motley FoolStock Advisoranalyst team just identified what they believe are the10 best stocksfor investors to buy now… andBYD Companywasn’t one of them. The 10 stocks that made the cut could produce monster returns in the coming years. Consider whenNetflixmade this list on December 17, 2004... if you invested $1,000 at the time of our recommendation,you’d have $556,335!*Or whenNvidiamade this list on April 15, 2005... if you invested $1,000 at the time of our recommendation,you’d have $1,160,572!* Now, it’s worth notingStock Advisor’s total average return is975% — a market-crushing outperformance compared to193%for the S&P 500. Don't miss the latest top 10 list, available withStock Advisor, and join an investing community built by individual investors for individual investors. See the 10 stocks › *Stock Advisor returns as of April 14, 2026.  Daniel Millerhas no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Tesla. The Motley Fool recommends BYD Company. The Motley Fool has adisclosure policy. This tech could reach $80 trillion. Imagine a technology worth over55 Metas. What in the world could be worth 55 Metas? The answer is a radical tech breakthrough that our experts think is transforming every walk of life. And this giant leap forward has many on Wall Street very excited. Continue ›  *Average returns of all recommendations since inception. Cost basis and return based on previous market day close. Our experts' top-rated cash back card just got even better. For a limited time, earn a $250 bonus after spending just $500 in the first 3 months. Plus, earn unlimited cash back and pay 0% intro APR until well into 2027. Don't wait — this offer ends soon. Invest better with The Motley Fool. Get stock recommendations, portfolio guidance, and more from The Motley Fool's premium services. Making the world smarter, happier, and richer. ©1995-2026The Motley Fool. All rights reserved. Market data powered byXigniteandPolygon.io. About The Motley Fool Our Services Around the Globe Free Tools Affiliates & Friends