Title: Meta's Revenue Growth Is Impressive, but Its AI Budget Is Getting Harder to Ignore
Date: 2026-05-04 23:26
URL: https://www.fool.com/investing/2026/05/04/metas-revenue-growth-is-impressive-but-its-ai-budg/?.tsrc=rss

The social media giant just posted its fastest top-line growth in years, but its 2026 spending plan keeps creeping higher. Shares of social media giantMeta Platforms(META+0.28%)sold off after the company reported its first-quarter 2026 results last week. This is despite the company's revenue growth of 33% year over year to more than $56 billion. In addition, Meta's ad impressions and ad pricing both moved sharply higher. And its operating margin was impressive at 41%. So why did the stock drop? Once again, the social network's AI bill is getting bigger. It's weighing on earnings and spooking some investors. Image source: Getty Images. Meta's growth story is impressive. Its strong first-quarter top-line growth rate was an acceleration from 24% growth in the fourth quarter and even higher than its 26% growth in Q3. Behind Meta's growth was a 19% year-over-year increase in ad impressions -- and the average price per ad increased 12%. This Card Just Received a Rare 5-Star Rating Our team of credit card pros don’t just recommend this card—they actually use it. Motley Fool Money calls it a top pick for a reason. Engagement on Meta's apps remained strong, too. Daily active users rose 4% year over year in March. And the company expects its strong top-line momentum to continue. Management guided for revenue of $58 billion to $61 billion in Q2. The midpoint implies about 25% year-over-year growth. One little-known company, called an "Indispensable Monopoly" owns the technology Nvidia, AMD, and Intel cannot function without. And it is still just a fraction of Nvidia’s size. We just released a brand-new report with the full story and the company’s name. But underneath all of this were some massive costs -- and a plan to ramp spending even more in the coming quarters. Alongside its results, Meta raised its full-year 2026capital expendituresoutlook (including principal payments on finance leases) to a range of $125 billion to $145 billion -- up from a prior range of $115 billion to $135 billion. Management cited higher component pricing (particularly memory pricing) and additional data center costs to support future capacity. To put the trajectory of this spending ramp into perspective, Meta spent about $39 billion on capital expenditures in 2024 and about $72 billion in 2025. The midpoint of its updated 2026 guidance puts spending near $135 billion -- close to double last year's level, and more than the company spent in 2024 and 2025 combined. First-quarter capital expenditures alone were $19.8 billion, up about 45% from $13.7 billion a year earlier. The larger spending plan, fortunately, didn't change Meta's full-year total expense guidance. But it was already extraordinarily high -- at $162 billion to $169 billion. With all of this said, it makes sense that the company is ramping up spending. Even the company's compute needs today -- before it builds and ships the personal superintelligence it aspires to create -- are significant. "Our experience so far has been that we have continued to underestimate our compute needs even as we have been ramping capacity significantly," Li said during Meta's first-quarter earnings call. Management is aware of the optics. CEO Mark Zuckerberg used part of his prepared remarks to emphasize the company's efforts to keep spending efficiently, including rolling out more than a gigawatt of custom silicon developed withBroadcomand addingAMDchips alongside itsNvidiasystems. "One of the primary goals of our Meta Compute initiative is to lead the industry in efficiency of building compute, and we expect that will be a strategic advantage over time," Zuckerberg explained during the call, when discussing how these custom silicon initiatives are part of the company's broader effort to focus on increasing the efficiency of its investments. The company also plans to reduce headcount in May -- and it even ended Q1 with headcount down 1% from Q4. Trading at aforward price-to-earnings ratioof about 20, with a market capitalization near $1.55 trillion as of this writing, the stock'svaluationisn't unreasonable given its growth profile. But the recent slide is a reminder that investors are increasingly weighing the upside of Meta's AI ambitions against the cost of getting there. Ultimately, I like the stock here. But I view it as a high-risk investment. Investors who decide to buy the dip, therefore, may want to keep any position in the stock small. If the company can't prove that it is earning a good return on its big spending, investors could lose faith in management's capital allocation decisions -- and the stock could slip. Of course, earnings would also take a hit in this case -- because these capital expenditures eventually show up on the income statement as depreciation, weighing heavily on earnings.     Before you buy stock inMeta Platforms, consider this: The Motley FoolStock Advisoranalyst team just identified what they believe are the10 best stocksfor investors to buy now… andMeta Platformswasn’t one of them. The 10 stocks that made the cut could produce monster returns in the coming years. Consider whenNetflixmade this list on December 17, 2004... if you invested $1,000 at the time of our recommendation,you’d have $496,473!*Or whenNvidiamade this list on April 15, 2005... if you invested $1,000 at the time of our recommendation,you’d have $1,216,605!* Now, it’s worth notingStock Advisor’s total average return is968% — a market-crushing outperformance compared to202%for the S&P 500. Don't miss the latest top 10 list, available withStock Advisor, and join an investing community built by individual investors for individual investors. See the 10 stocks › *Stock Advisor returns as of May 5, 2026.  Daniel Sparksand his clients have no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Advanced Micro Devices, Broadcom, Meta Platforms, and Nvidia. The Motley Fool has adisclosure policy. This tech could reach $80 trillion. Imagine a technology worth over35 Amazons. What in the world could be worth 35 Amazons? The answer is a radical tech breakthrough that our experts think is transforming every walk of life. And this giant leap forward has many on Wall Street very excited. Continue ›  *Average returns of all recommendations since inception. Cost basis and return based on previous market day close. This Card Just Received a Rare 5-Star Rating Our team of credit card pros don’t just recommend this card—they actually use it. Motley Fool Money calls it a top pick for a reason. Invest better with The Motley Fool. Get stock recommendations, portfolio guidance, and more from The Motley Fool's premium services. Making the world smarter, happier, and richer. ©1995-2026The Motley Fool. All rights reserved. Market data powered byXigniteandPolygon.io. About The Motley Fool Our Services Around the Globe Free Tools Affiliates & Friends