Title: Why Alphabet Stock Soared 34% in April -- One Catalyst Is Its Move to Challenge Data Center AI Chip Leader Nvidia
Date: 2026-05-05 00:00
URL: https://www.fool.com/investing/2026/05/04/why-alphabet-stock-soared-34-in-april-its-best-mon/?.tsrc=rss

Alphabet will start selling custom AI chips, presenting a challenge to the leader in data center AI-enabling chips, Nvidia, and its graphics processing units (GPUs). Shares of Google parentAlphabet(GOOG0.93%)(GOOGL0.59%)rocketed 33.8% higher in April, according to data fromS&P Global Market Intelligence. Last month was Alphabet's best monthly performance since October 2004, two months after its initial public offering (IPO), when the stock (then named Google) soared 47.1%. For additional context, in April, theS&P 500index returned 10.5%, and the tech-heavyNasdaq Compositeindex returned 15.3%.Artificial intelligence(AI)-related stocks overall had a particularly good month. (ChipmakerAdvanced Micro Devices, for instance,skyrocketed 74%in April.) So, Alphabet stock got a brisk tailwind from the market's strength, but it also had company-specific catalysts. This Card Just Received a Rare 5-Star Rating Our team of credit card pros don’t just recommend this card—they actually use it. Motley Fool Money calls it a top pick for a reason. Alphabet will start selling its AI-enabling TPUs. Image source: Getty Images. Alphabet stock climbed steadily throughout April, with its biggest jump coming at the end of the month after it released stellar first-quarter 2026 results on April 29. On April 30, shares surged 10%. Following this release, many Wall Street firms significantly raised their one-year price targets. When our analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all,Stock Advisor’stotal average return is968%*— a market-crushing outperformance compared to202%for the S&P 500. They just revealed what they believe are the10 best stocksfor investors to buy right now,available when you joinStock Advisor. *Stock Advisor returns as of May 5, 2026. In Q1, Alphabet's revenue grew 22% year over year to $109.9 billion. Google Services revenue increased 16% to $89.6 billion, while Google Cloud revenue soared 63% to $20.0 billion, driven by strong demand for its AI products and infrastructure. The company's broad-based, robust results underscore its success in monetizing its AI spending. Earnings per share (EPS) increased 82% year over year to $5.11, crushing the Wall Street estimate of $2.63. However, a big chunk of net income ($36.9 billion) came from unrealized gains on investments in non-marketable private equities. We can assume these "paper gains" refer primarily to AI model builder Anthropic -- a main competitor to ChatGPT creatorOpenAI-- and, probably to a lesser degree, SpaceX. Alphabet is a significant investor in both of these high-growth companies, which could be a big boon for it once they go public. The best metric to gauge Alphabet'soperatingperformance is operating income. This metric was $39.7 billion in the quarter, up 30% year over year. CEO Sundar Pichai highlighted an especially standout statistic about Google Cloud on the earnings call: "[O]ur backlog nearly doubled quarter on quarter to over $460 billion." Note this is sequential quarter growth, not year over year. This incredible backlog growth bodes very well for Google Cloud's growth over at least the next several years. Pichai revealed a new revenue stream on the company's earnings call: As TPU [Tensor Processing Unit] demand grows from AI labs, capital markets firms, and high-performance computing applications, we will begin to deliver TPUs to a select group of customers in their own data centers in a hardware configuration to expand our addressable market opportunity. In April, the company introduced its eighth-generation TPUs, each specialized for either AI training (TPU 8t) or AI inference (TPU 8i). Up until now, TPUs have only been available for customers to rent on Google Cloud. This strategic move presents a potential challenge to the leader in data center AI-enabling chips,Nvidia, and its graphics processing units (GPUs). In short, Alphabet is performing well across its consumer-facing businesses and its enterprise offerings. Its plan to start selling TPUs will provide a new revenue stream. Moreover, its early investments in Anthropic and SpaceX should prove to be lucrative. Its stock is worth considering buying.     Before you buy stock inAlphabet, consider this: The Motley FoolStock Advisoranalyst team just identified what they believe are the10 best stocksfor investors to buy now… andAlphabetwasn’t one of them. The 10 stocks that made the cut could produce monster returns in the coming years. Consider whenNetflixmade this list on December 17, 2004... if you invested $1,000 at the time of our recommendation,you’d have $496,473!*Or whenNvidiamade this list on April 15, 2005... if you invested $1,000 at the time of our recommendation,you’d have $1,216,605!* Now, it’s worth notingStock Advisor’s total average return is968% — a market-crushing outperformance compared to202%for the S&P 500. Don't miss the latest top 10 list, available withStock Advisor, and join an investing community built by individual investors for individual investors. See the 10 stocks › *Stock Advisor returns as of May 5, 2026.  Beth McKennahas positions in Nvidia. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Advanced Micro Devices, Alphabet, and Nvidia. The Motley Fool has adisclosure policy. This tech could reach $80 trillion. Imagine a technology worth over35 Amazons. What in the world could be worth 35 Amazons? The answer is a radical tech breakthrough that our experts think is transforming every walk of life. And this giant leap forward has many on Wall Street very excited. Continue ›  *Average returns of all recommendations since inception. Cost basis and return based on previous market day close. This Card Just Received a Rare 5-Star Rating Our team of credit card pros don’t just recommend this card—they actually use it. Motley Fool Money calls it a top pick for a reason. Invest better with The Motley Fool. Get stock recommendations, portfolio guidance, and more from The Motley Fool's premium services. Making the world smarter, happier, and richer. ©1995-2026The Motley Fool. All rights reserved. Market data powered byXigniteandPolygon.io. About The Motley Fool Our Services Around the Globe Free Tools Affiliates & Friends