Title: Why Upstart Stock Jumped 23% in April
Date: 2026-05-05 03:24
URL: https://www.fool.com/investing/2026/05/04/why-upstart-jumped-23-in-april/?.tsrc=rss

A recovery in the broad market and some reassurance about the private market lifted the stock. Shares ofUpstart(UPST2.02%), the AI-based loan origination platform, were moving higher last month as the company benefited from the broader risk-on positioning as tensions cooled in Iran, and stocks soared again. There was not much company-specific news out on Upstart, but the company did launch a new line of credit product called "Cash Line" that was well-received by investors. By the end of the month, the stock had finished up 23% according to data fromS&P Global Market Intelligence. As you can see from the chart below, the stock tracked with theS&P 500for the first half of the month, and then soared on the Cash Line announcement and other news. This Card Just Received a Rare 5-Star Rating Our team of credit card pros don’t just recommend this card—they actually use it. Motley Fool Money calls it a top pick for a reason.  UPSTdata byYCharts Upstart was one of severalfintech stocksto soar last month after fears about a private credit bubble cooled off, lifting stocks like Upstart in the middle of the month. Morgan Stanleysaid in its earnings report out on April 15 that risks in private credit were "significant but not systemic," which was seen as good news for stocks like Upstart, which rely on private credit investors buying its loans. When our analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all,Stock Advisor’stotal average return is968%*— a market-crushing outperformance compared to202%for the S&P 500. They just revealed what they believe are the10 best stocksfor investors to buy right now,available when you joinStock Advisor. *Stock Advisor returns as of May 5, 2026. The stock jumped 13% on April 15 on a combination of factors, including the broad market soaring on favorable news from the Middle East, the comments from Morgan Stanley on private credit, and Upstart's launch of Cash Line. Cash Line is the latest innovation from Upstart and offers borrowers a credit limit that only goes up, instant deposits, and a $200 minimum once approved. The stock got another bump on April 22 when it announced a $1.2 billion forward-flow agreement with Centerbridge, which agreed to purchase up to that much in consumer loans originated on the Upstart platform. The following week, it made a similar $1.25 billion agreement with Fortress. Image source: Getty Images. Upstart will report earnings on Tuesday, and the stock could be poised for a big move, as it has struggled of late even as the business has been executing effectively. Analysts are expecting revenue to jump 42% to $303.4 million, and for adjusted earnings per share to increase from $0.30 to $0.43. Considering the stock now has a very reasonableprice-to-earnings ratio, there's a lot of upside potential for the stock if it can reassure investors of its growth potential.       Before you buy stock inUpstart, consider this: The Motley FoolStock Advisoranalyst team just identified what they believe are the10 best stocksfor investors to buy now… andUpstartwasn’t one of them. The 10 stocks that made the cut could produce monster returns in the coming years. Consider whenNetflixmade this list on December 17, 2004... if you invested $1,000 at the time of our recommendation,you’d have $496,473!*Or whenNvidiamade this list on April 15, 2005... if you invested $1,000 at the time of our recommendation,you’d have $1,216,605!* Now, it’s worth notingStock Advisor’s total average return is968% — a market-crushing outperformance compared to202%for the S&P 500. Don't miss the latest top 10 list, available withStock Advisor, and join an investing community built by individual investors for individual investors. See the 10 stocks › *Stock Advisor returns as of May 5, 2026.  Jeremy Bowmanhas positions in Upstart. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Upstart. The Motley Fool has adisclosure policy. This tech could reach $80 trillion. Imagine a technology worth over55 Metas. What in the world could be worth 55 Metas? The answer is a radical tech breakthrough that our experts think is transforming every walk of life. And this giant leap forward has many on Wall Street very excited. Continue ›  *Average returns of all recommendations since inception. Cost basis and return based on previous market day close. This Card Just Received a Rare 5-Star Rating Our team of credit card pros don’t just recommend this card—they actually use it. Motley Fool Money calls it a top pick for a reason. Invest better with The Motley Fool. Get stock recommendations, portfolio guidance, and more from The Motley Fool's premium services. Making the world smarter, happier, and richer. ©1995-2026The Motley Fool. All rights reserved. Market data powered byXigniteandPolygon.io. About The Motley Fool Our Services Around the Globe Free Tools Affiliates & Friends