Title: Better Fintech Stock for Growth Investors: Nu Holdings vs. SoFi
Date: 2026-04-14 19:50
URL: https://www.fool.com/investing/2026/04/14/better-fintech-stock-for-growth-investors-nu-vs-so/?.tsrc=rss

These two digital banks are growing fast. Fintech, or financial technology, has become a market buzzword as tech-driven upstarts have changed the landscape in the broader financial sector. Nearly everyone engages with it in some capacity, through mobile payments, online banking, and chip-based credit cards. While every financial company has introduced new technology into their systems, including financial giants likeVisaandBank of America, many young companies offer investors the chance for high growth. ConsiderNu Holdings(NU+2.68%)andSoFi Technologies(SOFI+5.04%). Both of these banks are small, all digital, and growing at fast rates. Which one is the better fintech buy right now? Image source: The Motley Fool. Nu is based in Brazil, where it already has more than 60% of the adult population as customers. More recently, it also entered the Mexican and Colombian markets, where it's growing even faster. Our experts' top-rated cash back card just got even better. For a limited time, earn a $250 bonus after spending just $500 in the first 3 months. Plus, earn unlimited cash back and pay 0% intro APR until well into 2027. Don't wait — this offer ends soon. It has huge opportunities in multiple ways. It's still adding millions of customers in Brazil, but even as the rate of customer add-ons slows down in this market, it still has a small portion of the gross profit. That means it's still viewed as a platform for certain financial activities, and the company has the chance to cross-sell more products and monetize its existing consumer base. It only recently received approval for a full bank charter, which will allow it to offer a more comprehensive assortment of products. It's following its Brazil playbook in Mexico and Colombia, where the market is still undertapped; it has 15% of the adult population in Mexico on the platform, and 11% of the population in Colombia. One little-known company, called an "Indispensable Monopoly" owns the technology Nvidia, AMD, and Intel cannot function without. And it is still just a fraction of Nvidia’s size. We just released a brand-new report with the full story and the company’s name. Finally, it has ambitions to become a global financial powerhouse. It has already received approval for a banking charter in the U.S. and plans to open within the next 18 months, and in the meantime, it's building its brand presence with sponsorship deals. Nu stockis up 42% over the past year, but it could skyrocket further as the company expands. SoFi operates a similar financial platform in the U.S. It's adding customers at a fast pace, with record additions each quarter over the past four. Customers love its easy-to-use interface and products that speak to its core audience of students and young professionals. Management has pointed out that 90% of SoFi Money deposits are direct deposit, implying a reliable and growing source of recurring revenue. The company has worked to expand the platform and diversify its product line, leading to a strong cross-selling strategy and high engagement. The low-cost, fee-based financial services segment continues to outpace lending growth, and the technology platform segment, which is a financial infrastructure business, adds value in diversification and growth while offering the ability to quickly develop its own new products. Management has reiterated that it's aiming to become one of the top 10 financial institutions in the country, and if it can continue to keep up current growth rates, it could happen in the not-too-distant future. I own and recommend both of these stocks. They both require some appetite for risk, but my take would be that if you have a higher risk tolerance, you might want to choose Nu, and if you're looking for a great buy on the dip,go for SoFi.     Before you buy stock inNu Holdings, consider this: The Motley FoolStock Advisoranalyst team just identified what they believe are the10 best stocksfor investors to buy now… andNu Holdingswasn’t one of them. The 10 stocks that made the cut could produce monster returns in the coming years. Consider whenNetflixmade this list on December 17, 2004... if you invested $1,000 at the time of our recommendation,you’d have $556,335!*Or whenNvidiamade this list on April 15, 2005... if you invested $1,000 at the time of our recommendation,you’d have $1,160,572!* Now, it’s worth notingStock Advisor’s total average return is975% — a market-crushing outperformance compared to193%for the S&P 500. Don't miss the latest top 10 list, available withStock Advisor, and join an investing community built by individual investors for individual investors. See the 10 stocks › *Stock Advisor returns as of April 14, 2026.  Bank of America is an advertising partner of Motley Fool Money.Jennifer Saibilhas positions in Nu Holdings and SoFi Technologies. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Nu Holdings and Visa. The Motley Fool has adisclosure policy. This tech could reach $80 trillion. Imagine a technology worth over55 Metas. What in the world could be worth 55 Metas? The answer is a radical tech breakthrough that our experts think is transforming every walk of life. And this giant leap forward has many on Wall Street very excited. Continue ›  *Average returns of all recommendations since inception. Cost basis and return based on previous market day close. Our experts' top-rated cash back card just got even better. For a limited time, earn a $250 bonus after spending just $500 in the first 3 months. Plus, earn unlimited cash back and pay 0% intro APR until well into 2027. Don't wait — this offer ends soon. Invest better with The Motley Fool. Get stock recommendations, portfolio guidance, and more from The Motley Fool's premium services. Making the world smarter, happier, and richer. ©1995-2026The Motley Fool. All rights reserved. Market data powered byXigniteandPolygon.io. About The Motley Fool Our Services Around the Globe Free Tools Affiliates & Friends