Title: As workers worry about AI, Nvidia’s Jensen Huang says AI is ‘creating an enormous number of jobs’
Date: 2026-05-05 03:31
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/sectors/technology/articles/workers-worry-ai-nvidia-jensen-033154488.html?.tsrc=rss

Oops, something went wrong Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Spirit Airlines is gone. Here are the low-cost airlines filling the gap. Court documents show Musk warned OpenAI execs they would become 'the most hated men in America' days before the trial began Palantir beats earnings expectations, with revenue rising 85% on booming US business Dow, S&P 500, Nasdaq drop, oil surges as Middle East attacks escalate GameStop’s CEO dodged questions on funding the deal, leaving investors uneasy Dow sags while S&P 500, Nasdaq waver as Hormuz tensions rise Why trade deficits under Trump are so difficult to understand (and so easy to spin) Buying record highs looks riskier in the Nasdaq and Russell 2000 than in the broader market Would a gas tax holiday lower prices? What drivers should know. Wall Street sees more market gains as strong earnings fuel the AI trade The April jobs report and more major first quarter results await investors this week. April added roughly $1.2 trillion to Alphabet’s market value, or just over 50 times Google’s IPO valuation. Toto Wolff on Mercedes F1's dominant start, the 'outstanding' Kimi Antonelli, and why vulnerability is a leader's 'superpower' The average cost of college in 2026 (and how to pay for it) Network shakeups hit Medicare Advantage, forcing retirees to pay up or find new care Jerome Powell's Fed years were an everything rally The Iran War almost upended spring homebuying, but so far the market is showing 'surprising resilience' Berkshire Hathaway's profits double as shareholders gather for the annual meeting in Omaha (Associated Press) Bankrupt carrier Spirit Airlines ceased operations Saturday, the industry's first closure linked to the Iran war. If Spirit Airlines shuts down, travel chaos could ramp up. Here's how to protect your summer travel plans. The S&P 500 and Nasdaq jumped to record highs as the AI trade fueled a tech rally The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq advanced after hitting record highs as earnings rolled in Apple's earnings beat is part of an amazing trend AI developers are snapping up Mac minis, sparking a shortage that could drag on for months Apple beats earnings estimates on strong iPhone and China sales Dow jumps 750 points, S&P 500 and Nasdaq notch record highs to end the best month for stocks since 2020 The AI earnings bonanza is splitting investors Trump bets Hormuz blockade will break Iran before triggering a global crisis US stocks climb as economic updates, solid earnings roll in and Big Techs buoy AI hopes Nvidia has powered one third of the Mag 7's bull market gains Results from four Big Tech companies showed combined AI spending reaching an eye-popping $725 billion this year. Microsoft tops earnings estimates, says AI business up 123% year over year Meta stock falls despite earnings beat as AI spending plans spook investors Alphabet earnings top estimates on strong Google Cloud growth The Dow and S&P 500 slipped as oil surged, with Big Tech earnings on deck Powell will stay on as governor, says he has no choice amid legal attacks on Fed Powell holds what is expected to be his final press conference as chair after the Fed keeps rates steady Fed holds interest rates steady with no end to Iran war in sight Elon Musk testified again in the OpenAI trial, describing his behavior at the company and its nonprofit 'halo' A Senate committee confirmed Kevin Warsh, sending his nomination to be chairman of the Fed to the full Senate Stocks slipped at the open as investors awaited a Fed decision and Big Tech earnings The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq dropped as chip stocks sank and oil rose S&P 500 and Nasdaq sink, Dow rises as OpenAI-linked stocks falter and UAE exits OPEC The United Arab Emirates will leave OPEC+ effective May 1 The only number that matters for 'Magnificent 7' earnings this week The S&P 500 and Nasdaq notched fresh records, while oil edged higher as markets weighed Iran peace odds Gasoline prices are expected to turn higher as oil holds above $100 per barrel amid uncertainty over the US-Iran war US stocks open mixed as markets brace for a big week of Big Tech earnings. The rapid run-up in chip stocks has reignited the AI trade as the S&P 500 and Nasdaq sit at record highs. Americans are feeling less confident about their retirement savings. Here are some of the best ways to get started early. When it comes to the specter of AI’s labor-displacing potential, Jensen Huang thinks that the American worker has nothing to fear. Duringa conversationMonday night with MSNBC’s Becky Quick hosted by the Milken Institute — an economic policy think tank, the jovial Nvidia CEO said that AI was an industrial-scale generator of jobs, not the harbinger of mass unemployment that so-called “AI doomers” have often accused it of being. How does Nvidia CEO respond to AI economic anxiety? What is Jensen Huang's view on AI's impact on jobs? What role do AI factories play in job creation? How significant could AI's job displacement actually be? A number of different topics were broached during the talk, but a central theme that kept coming back was the ongoing economic anxiety surrounding the AI industry and whether it was something Americans should be legitimately worried about. At one point Quick noted: “This is happening so quickly. Is there a bigger dislocation than we’ve seen in the past that leads to greater inequality? And what do we do about that?” Throughout the night, Huang struck an optimistic note. “AI creates jobs,” Huang asserted during the discussion, adding that “AI is [the] United States’ best opportunity to re-industrialize” itself. Huang noted that the AI industry is powered by a new breed of industrial factories—the kinds producing the hardware that acts as critical infrastructure for the AI business. (Huang’s company notably sells a lot of that hardware.) Those factories necessarily need workers, as does the rest of the blossoming AI industry. Just because a specific task is automated, that doesn’t mean that a person’s entire job is going to be replaced, Huang reasoned. People who believe this “misunderstand that the purpose of a job and the task of a job are related” but not ultimately the same thing, he said. In other words, Huang’s argument is that even when AI takes over a discrete task within a role, the broader function that employee serves in an organization is likely to remain. Relatedly, Huang was critical of people who allege AI will dominate humanity or that it will wipe out huge sectors of the economy. “My greatest concern is that we scare…people—all the people that we’re telling these science fiction stories to, to the point where AI is so unpopular in the United States, or people are so afraid of it, that they don’t actually engage it,” he said. Ironically, much of the “doomer” rhetoric has been generatedby the AI industry itself, and critics maintain that such hyperbole has been used as a marketing gimmick designed to gin up buzz and excitement for products that aren’t anywhere near the capabilities that such rhetoric suggests. It remains to be seen what kind of long-term impact AI will have on the overall economy. That said, reputable financial and academic organizations have suggested that asmuch as 15% percent of jobsin the U.S. will be eliminated over the next several years as a result of AI. Weʼre unable to load stories right now. Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Sign in to access your portfolio