Title: Why Occidental Petroleum Fell Today
Date: 2026-04-14 19:06
URL: https://www.fool.com/investing/2026/04/14/why-occidental-petroleum-fell-today/?.tsrc=rss

Occidental fell along with oil prices, after it was reported the U.S. and Iran would return to talks later this week. Shares of U.S.-based oil producerOccidental Petroleum(OXY4.62%)were falling on Tuesday, down 4.9% as of 1:00 p.m. EDT. Occidental is largely a U.S.-based oil and gas producer, with deep, low-cost inventory in the Permian Basin in West Texas, among other U.S. locations. The company also has a fair amount of debt on its balance sheet -- the result of two major acquisitions over the past seven years. As such, Occidental's stock is highly sensitive to oil prices and was an outsize beneficiary of the Strait of Hormuz closure, since some of its Middle East competitors have been cut off from global markets. The Strait has been an ongoing drama since shortly after the U.S.-Iran war began at the end of February. Today, there were renewed hopes for a deal to open the Strait. Despite a still very unclear picture of the future, those reports were enough to send oil prices tumbling, and Occidental's stock with it. Our experts' top-rated cash back card just got even better. For a limited time, earn a $250 bonus after spending just $500 in the first 3 months. Plus, earn unlimited cash back and pay 0% intro APR until well into 2027. Don't wait — this offer ends soon. On Saturday, the first rounds of negotiations, headed by Vice President JD Vance, ended without any resolution, as the Iranian leadership was unwilling to compromise on its nuclear ambitions, as well as other "red lines." In response, President Trump threatened to blockade the Strait of Hormuz with U.S. ships. Before this, Iran had been threatening all ships crossing the Strait, save for its own ships or others that had agreed to pay "tolls" to the regime. But Trump's blockade of the Strait would theoretically halt all ships, Iran's included. WhileReutersreported today that ships continued to cross the Strait in roughly the same numbers as last week, U.S. Central Command said it was enforcing the blockade this morning. CENTCOM noted it was still allowing ships from non-Iranian ports to cross the Strait, suggesting some ships from allies were actually getting through. But CENTCOM also noted that it had ordered six ships from Iranian ports to turn back, which they did. One little-known company, called an "Indispensable Monopoly" owns the technology Nvidia, AMD, and Intel cannot function without. And it is still just a fraction of Nvidia’s size. We just released a brand-new report with the full story and the company’s name. Earlier today, two people familiar with the matter toldNBC Newsthat talks to reopen the Strait could resume later this week. That could mean the U.S. blockade is at least bringing Iran back to the negotiating table. That sent oil prices back down about 7.2% today, to $91 per barrel as of this writing. Image source: Getty Images. While renewed hope for a deal to open the Strait sent oil prices back down today, it's still an open question when the Strait will reopen and what level of traffic will traverse it when it does. Meanwhile, oil prices may be down today, but will likely stay above the levels at which they started the year for some time. After all, even if the Strait opens, it will take time for supplies to regain past levels. That should enable Occidental to maintain high profitability and pay down more debt, at least through the first half of this year, de-risking its story. As such, Occidental may be worth a look on this pullback, especially for those without anyoil and gas exposurein their portfolios. As we've seen this year, oil and gas stocks act as a good hedge against geopolitical turmoil in the Middle East and Russia. As a bonus, most major oil and gas companiespay solid dividendsalong the way.     Before you buy stock inOccidental Petroleum, consider this: The Motley FoolStock Advisoranalyst team just identified what they believe are the10 best stocksfor investors to buy now… andOccidental Petroleumwasn’t one of them. The 10 stocks that made the cut could produce monster returns in the coming years. Consider whenNetflixmade this list on December 17, 2004... if you invested $1,000 at the time of our recommendation,you’d have $556,335!*Or whenNvidiamade this list on April 15, 2005... if you invested $1,000 at the time of our recommendation,you’d have $1,160,572!* Now, it’s worth notingStock Advisor’s total average return is975% — a market-crushing outperformance compared to193%for the S&P 500. Don't miss the latest top 10 list, available withStock Advisor, and join an investing community built by individual investors for individual investors. See the 10 stocks › *Stock Advisor returns as of April 14, 2026.  Billy Dubersteinand/or his clients have no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool recommends Occidental Petroleum. The Motley Fool has adisclosure policy. This tech could reach $80 trillion. Imagine a technology worth over35 Amazons. What in the world could be worth 35 Amazons? The answer is a radical tech breakthrough that our experts think is transforming every walk of life. And this giant leap forward has many on Wall Street very excited. Continue ›  *Average returns of all recommendations since inception. Cost basis and return based on previous market day close. Our experts' top-rated cash back card just got even better. For a limited time, earn a $250 bonus after spending just $500 in the first 3 months. Plus, earn unlimited cash back and pay 0% intro APR until well into 2027. Don't wait — this offer ends soon. Invest better with The Motley Fool. Get stock recommendations, portfolio guidance, and more from The Motley Fool's premium services. Making the world smarter, happier, and richer. ©1995-2026The Motley Fool. All rights reserved. Market data powered byXigniteandPolygon.io. About The Motley Fool Our Services Around the Globe Free Tools Affiliates & Friends