Title: The "SaaSpocalypse" Created the Best Buying Opportunity in Cybersecurity in Years. Don't Miss It.
Date: 2026-04-14 19:38
URL: https://www.fool.com/investing/2026/04/14/saaspocalypse-create-buy-opportunity-cybersecurity/?.tsrc=rss

Now is a great time to scoop up shares in booming cybersecurity businesses. Investors recognized artificial intelligence's (AI) potential to transform industries, supercharging many tech stocks in recent years. That enthusiasm shifted to alarm in 2026. AI's transformational potential includes agentic AI that can independently execute tasks previously handled by software-as-a-service (SaaS) companies, leading to a massive sell-off in SaaS stocks. This "SaaSpocalypse" extended to the cybersecurity sector afterAI giant Anthropicreleased artificial intelligence capable of identifying security vulnerabilities in software. While Wall Street believes AI threatens cybersecurity companies, the reality is not so simple. Moreover, the current sell-off offers long-term investors an opportunity to buy cybersecurity stocks at substantial discounts. Image source: Getty Images. First, let's address Wall Street's AI fears. Although artificial intelligence is a potent technology, it's not a blanket replacement for cybersecurity, which has become critical to functioning in today's digital age. Organizations are unlikely to dump existing solutions for unproven AI alternatives from the likes of Anthropic. Our experts' top-rated cash back card just got even better. For a limited time, earn a $250 bonus after spending just $500 in the first 3 months. Plus, earn unlimited cash back and pay 0% intro APR until well into 2027. Don't wait — this offer ends soon. In addition, AI alone isn't a panacea against criminal hackers, who are launching increasingly sophisticated attacks such as data poisoning. This is where the AI that depends on the data to do its job is corrupted, creating vulnerabilities for hackers to exploit. Consequently, the multi-pronged protection provided by cybersecurity companies is essential. Also, they can address situations AI cannot solve, such as strategic decision-making and weighing ethical considerations. One little-known company, called an "Indispensable Monopoly" owns the technology Nvidia, AMD, and Intel cannot function without. And it is still just a fraction of Nvidia’s size. We just released a brand-new report with the full story and the company’s name. The SaaSpocalypse caused manycybersecurity stocksto appear oversold. Some successful companies in the sector to invest in include identity security expertOkta(OKTA2.09%), data protection providerRubrik(RBRK1.25%), andPalo Alto Networks(PANW0.57%), one of the select businesses given exclusive access to Anthropic's latest AI, deemed too great a cybersecurity threat to release to the public. Each of these businesses saw substantial share price declines of 15% or more this year through the week ending April 10. Consequently, their stocks are at valuations not seen in years. Since Rubrik isn't profitable, here's a look at its price-to-sales ratios.  Data byYCharts. Along with their stocks trading at appealing valuations, these companies are all posting strong sales. In its fiscal second quarter (ended Jan. 31), Palo Alto Networks' revenue rose 15% year over year to $2.6 billion. Okta experienced 11% year-over-year sales growth to $761 million in its fiscal Q4, ended Jan. 31. Rubrik boasted the biggest sales increase among this trio, with an impressive 46% year-over-year growth to $377.7 million in its fiscal Q4, ended Jan. 31. While Rubrik isn't profitable, its Q4 net loss of $87 million is a reduction from the prior year's loss of $115 million, which is a positive sign. These three cybersecurity companies possess strengths in the AI era. Palo Alto Networks offers comprehensive protection through its feature-rich platform. Okta's specialty is identity and access management, ensuring that only authorized users have access to an organization's systems, and that protection extends to validating legitimate AI agents. Data integrity is the bedrock of AI systems. This makes Rubrik's offerings increasingly important to artificial intelligence adoption. For investors willing to buy and hold for the long haul, these three are among the successful cybersecurity businesses to consider investing in amid the SaaSpocalypse.     Before you buy stock inPalo Alto Networks, consider this: The Motley FoolStock Advisoranalyst team just identified what they believe are the10 best stocksfor investors to buy now… andPalo Alto Networkswasn’t one of them. The 10 stocks that made the cut could produce monster returns in the coming years. Consider whenNetflixmade this list on December 17, 2004... if you invested $1,000 at the time of our recommendation,you’d have $556,335!*Or whenNvidiamade this list on April 15, 2005... if you invested $1,000 at the time of our recommendation,you’d have $1,160,572!* Now, it’s worth notingStock Advisor’s total average return is975% — a market-crushing outperformance compared to193%for the S&P 500. Don't miss the latest top 10 list, available withStock Advisor, and join an investing community built by individual investors for individual investors. See the 10 stocks › *Stock Advisor returns as of April 14, 2026.  Robert Izquierdohas positions in Okta and Palo Alto Networks. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Okta and Rubrik. The Motley Fool recommends Palo Alto Networks. The Motley Fool has adisclosure policy. This tech could reach $80 trillion. Imagine a technology worth over18 Nvidias. What in the world could be worth 18 Nvidias? The answer is a radical tech breakthrough that our experts think is transforming every walk of life. And this giant leap forward has many on Wall Street very excited. Continue ›  *Average returns of all recommendations since inception. Cost basis and return based on previous market day close. Our experts' top-rated cash back card just got even better. For a limited time, earn a $250 bonus after spending just $500 in the first 3 months. Plus, earn unlimited cash back and pay 0% intro APR until well into 2027. Don't wait — this offer ends soon. Invest better with The Motley Fool. Get stock recommendations, portfolio guidance, and more from The Motley Fool's premium services. Making the world smarter, happier, and richer. ©1995-2026The Motley Fool. All rights reserved. Market data powered byXigniteandPolygon.io. About The Motley Fool Our Services Around the Globe Free Tools Affiliates & Friends