Title: Why Napco Security Technologies Stock Plummeted Today
Date: 2026-05-04 21:31
URL: https://www.fool.com/investing/2026/05/04/why-napco-security-technologies-stock-plummeted-to/?.tsrc=rss

Even though the stock suffered a big sell-off today, Napco is still up 67% over the last year. Napco Security Technologies(NSSC15.22%)stock sank in Monday's trading. The security-solution company's share price closed out the daily session down 15.2%. Napco published its fiscal third-quarter results before the market opened this morning and reported better-than-expected earnings on revenue that was in line with the market's expectations. Fiscal Q3 ended March 31 for the company. Despite the big pullback today, the stock is still up roughly 67% over the last year. Image source: Getty Images. With the fiscal Q3 release it published this morning, Napco reportednon-GAAP(adjusted) earnings of $0.39 per share on sales of $49.2 million. Sales were up roughly 11.8% year over year and in line with the average analyst estimate, and adjusted earnings per share beat the average forecast by $0.05. Napco's Q3 results didn't look terrible, and today's sell-off may have seen litigation settlements and broader valuation concerns play bigger roles in shaping valuation moves. Some aspects of the Q3 report actually looked promising. The company closed out the period with recurring service revenue (RSR) of $24.9 million -- up 15.4% year over year. The RSR category also delivered a gross margin of 90.4%, which suggests that it could be a strong earnings driver if it continues to scale.     Before you buy stock inNapco Security Technologies, consider this: The Motley FoolStock Advisoranalyst team just identified what they believe are the10 best stocksfor investors to buy now… andNapco Security Technologieswasn’t one of them. The 10 stocks that made the cut are built for long-term growth and could produce monster returns in the coming years. Consider whenNetflixmade this list on December 17, 2004... if you invested $1,000 at the time of our recommendation,you’d have $496,473!*Or whenNvidiamade this list on April 15, 2005... if you invested $1,000 at the time of our recommendation,you’d have $1,216,605!* That performance is why people listen. With a track record ofbeating the S&P 500 by nearly 5x,Stock Advisoroffers a distinct advantage. Don't miss the latest top 10 list, available withStock Advisor, and join an investing community built for the long haul. See the 10 stocks › *Stock Advisor returns as of May 5, 2026.  Keith Noonanhas no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has adisclosure policy. This tech could reach $80 trillion. Imagine a technology worth over18 Nvidias. What in the world could be worth 18 Nvidias? The answer is a radical tech breakthrough that our experts think is transforming every walk of life. And this giant leap forward has many on Wall Street very excited. Continue ›  *Average returns of all recommendations since inception. Cost basis and return based on previous market day close. This Card Just Received a Rare 5-Star Rating Our team of credit card pros don’t just recommend this card—they actually use it. Motley Fool Money calls it a top pick for a reason. Invest better with The Motley Fool. Get stock recommendations, portfolio guidance, and more from The Motley Fool's premium services. Making the world smarter, happier, and richer. ©1995-2026The Motley Fool. All rights reserved. Market data powered byXigniteandPolygon.io. About The Motley Fool Our Services Around the Globe Free Tools Affiliates & Friends