Title: Local Snapshot: Most Small Business Owners Aren’t Prepared for Succession, New Chase Survey Finds
Date: 2026-05-04 14:03
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/economy/policy/articles/local-snapshot-most-small-business-140300558.html?.tsrc=rss

Oops, something went wrong Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Spirit Airlines is gone. Here are the low-cost airlines filling the gap. Court documents show Musk warned OpenAI execs they would become 'the most hated men in America' days before the trial began Palantir beats earnings expectations, with revenue rising 85% on booming US business Dow, S&P 500, Nasdaq drop, oil surges as Middle East attacks escalate GameStop’s CEO dodged questions on funding the deal, leaving investors uneasy Dow sags while S&P 500, Nasdaq waver as Hormuz tensions rise Why trade deficits under Trump are so difficult to understand (and so easy to spin) Buying record highs looks riskier in the Nasdaq and Russell 2000 than in the broader market Would a gas tax holiday lower prices? What drivers should know. Wall Street sees more market gains as strong earnings fuel the AI trade The April jobs report and more major first quarter results await investors this week. April added roughly $1.2 trillion to Alphabet’s market value, or just over 50 times Google’s IPO valuation. Toto Wolff on Mercedes F1's dominant start, the 'outstanding' Kimi Antonelli, and why vulnerability is a leader's 'superpower' The average cost of college in 2026 (and how to pay for it) Network shakeups hit Medicare Advantage, forcing retirees to pay up or find new care Jerome Powell's Fed years were an everything rally The Iran War almost upended spring homebuying, but so far the market is showing 'surprising resilience' Berkshire Hathaway's profits double as shareholders gather for the annual meeting in Omaha (Associated Press) Bankrupt carrier Spirit Airlines ceased operations Saturday, the industry's first closure linked to the Iran war. If Spirit Airlines shuts down, travel chaos could ramp up. Here's how to protect your summer travel plans. The S&P 500 and Nasdaq jumped to record highs as the AI trade fueled a tech rally The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq advanced after hitting record highs as earnings rolled in Apple's earnings beat is part of an amazing trend AI developers are snapping up Mac minis, sparking a shortage that could drag on for months Apple beats earnings estimates on strong iPhone and China sales Dow jumps 750 points, S&P 500 and Nasdaq notch record highs to end the best month for stocks since 2020 The AI earnings bonanza is splitting investors Trump bets Hormuz blockade will break Iran before triggering a global crisis US stocks climb as economic updates, solid earnings roll in and Big Techs buoy AI hopes Nvidia has powered one third of the Mag 7's bull market gains Results from four Big Tech companies showed combined AI spending reaching an eye-popping $725 billion this year. Microsoft tops earnings estimates, says AI business up 123% year over year Meta stock falls despite earnings beat as AI spending plans spook investors Alphabet earnings top estimates on strong Google Cloud growth The Dow and S&P 500 slipped as oil surged, with Big Tech earnings on deck Powell will stay on as governor, says he has no choice amid legal attacks on Fed Powell holds what is expected to be his final press conference as chair after the Fed keeps rates steady Fed holds interest rates steady with no end to Iran war in sight Elon Musk testified again in the OpenAI trial, describing his behavior at the company and its nonprofit 'halo' A Senate committee confirmed Kevin Warsh, sending his nomination to be chairman of the Fed to the full Senate Stocks slipped at the open as investors awaited a Fed decision and Big Tech earnings The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq dropped as chip stocks sank and oil rose S&P 500 and Nasdaq sink, Dow rises as OpenAI-linked stocks falter and UAE exits OPEC The United Arab Emirates will leave OPEC+ effective May 1 The only number that matters for 'Magnificent 7' earnings this week The S&P 500 and Nasdaq notched fresh records, while oil edged higher as markets weighed Iran peace odds Gasoline prices are expected to turn higher as oil holds above $100 per barrel amid uncertainty over the US-Iran war US stocks open mixed as markets brace for a big week of Big Tech earnings. The rapid run-up in chip stocks has reignited the AI trade as the S&P 500 and Nasdaq sit at record highs. Americans are feeling less confident about their retirement savings. Here are some of the best ways to get started early. Nearly half of small business owners plan to retire within 10 years, creating a critical opportunity to strengthen succession planning, preserve jobs and sustain community impact NEW YORK, May 04, 2026--(BUSINESS WIRE)--New Chase survey data shows a significant gap between small business owners’ retirement timelines and their readiness to transition leadership. While nearly half expect to step away within the next decade, only a small share say they have a fully developed succession plan. Conducted nationally - with market-level analysis in Austin, Detroit, New York City, Salt Lake City, and San Francisco - the survey asked owners about their business operations, goals, and readiness for transitioning ownership. The data points to a pivotal moment for small business across the U.S.: an ownership transition that, if planned effectively, can help preserve jobs, sustain local economies, and extend the legacy of businesses that anchor their communities. "Running a small business is deeply personal; it represents years of hard work and commitment," said Ben Walter, CEO of Chase for Business. "Taking the time to plan what comes next is one of the most important steps owners can take to protect their legacy and help their business thrive for generations to come." A Generational Transition is Underway Despite the scale of this transition, many owners are still early in the planning process: 40%of small business owners plan to retire within the next decade 70%are in early-stage planning or have no formal succession plan 8%report being fully prepared to transition ownership Many have yet to address key steps, including valuation, tax strategy, and identifying a successor For many owners, succession planning remains a future consideration rather than an immediate priority, creating risk, but also a clear opportunity to act early. Local Insights Show Regional Differences The survey found that the transition is playing out differently across key markets: InDetroitandSalt Lake City, 58% of owners plan to retire within the next decade InSan FranciscoandAustin, 56% and 53% respectively, say they have already thought about identifying a new owner InNew York City, 38% expect to retire within 10 years At the same time, readiness remains low across markets, with many owners still in the early stages of planning or yet to begin. Owners Prioritize Legacy Over Price When thinking about an eventual exit, owners are focused on more than financial return: 66%say both keeping jobs and maximizing sale value matter 61%prioritize finding the right next owner InDetroit, 70%rank job preservation as a top priority InSalt Lake CityandAustin, maximizing sale value stands out InNew York CityandSan Francisco, owners are especially focused on maintaining their role as community anchors Trusted Guidance Helps Move Owners from Planning to Action Access to expert support plays a critical role in accelerating readiness: Owners who do not engage with an expert (e.g. a banker) are4–8x more likelyto remain in early planning stages Those who have started planning – particularly inSan Francisco, Salt Lake City, and Austin– are more likely to work with trusted partners and set a clear standard for how the business will run going forward The biggest barriers to planning aretime, competing priorities, and uncertainty about where to start.There is a clear opportunity to better equip owners with tools and guidance to navigate succession with confidence. For more information and resources on succession planning, visit:Chase.com/NationalTreasures. The findings come as Chase launches its "National Treasures" campaign during National Small Business Week, celebrating the essential role small businesses play in local communities and encouraging owners to prepare for the next chapter through legacy building and protection. This campaign also builds on JPMorganChase’s American Dream Initiative for small business owners, with a goal of reaching 10 million small business owners over the next several years through expanded access to coaching, resources and education – including succession planning and transition readiness. In 2025, the firm invested more than $11.5 million philanthropically to support future planning for small businesses. Survey MethodologyChase surveyed about 1,000 small business owners nationwide in March 2026, including both Chase and non-Chase customers. The markets selected were based on a number of factors, including having a dynamic business environment, a known culture of innovation and entrepreneurship, and a strong Chase for Business presence. About the American Dream InitiativeJPMorganChase’s American Dream Initiative is a multi-year effort to expand economic opportunity by scaling proven solutions that help the economy work for more people. Through the Initiative, the Firm will provide financing, facilitate capital, offer advice, training and tools, and advocate for policy solutions to help people start and grow small businesses, find affordable places to live, save and plan for their financial futures, get good jobs, access quality healthcare and strengthen local institutions. The Initiative will start with a firmwide effort to support 10 million small businesses—up from seven million served today—and scale its support for small businesses by hiring 1,000+ business bankers, nearly doubling its Senior Business Consultants, scaling Coaching for Impact to graduate 115,000 entrepreneurs in more markets and committing $80 billion in lending over the next 10 years, alongside local investments in events nationwide. For more information on the American Dream Initiative, visit jpmorganchase.com/America. About ChaseChase is the U.S. consumer and commercial banking business of JPMorgan Chase & Co. (NYSE: JPM), a leading financial services firm based in the United States of America with operations worldwide, assets of $4.9 trillion and $364 billion in stockholders’ equity as of March 31, 2026. Chase serves nearly 87 million consumers and 7.5 million small businesses with a broad range of financial services, including personal banking, credit cards, mortgages, auto financing, investment advice, small business loans and payment processing. Customers can choose how and where they want to bank: more than 5,000 branches in 48 states and the District of Columbia, nearly 15,000 ATMs, mobile, online and by phone. For more information, go to chase.com. View source version on businesswire.com:https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20260504710904/en/ Contacts Media Contact Chaffon Davischaffon.davis@chase.com Weʼre unable to load stories right now. Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Sign in to access your portfolio