Title: Pfizer Earnings: What To Look For From PFE
Date: 2026-05-05 00:44
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/sectors/healthcare/articles/pfizer-earnings-look-pfe-004455201.html?.tsrc=rss

Oops, something went wrong Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Spirit Airlines is gone. Here are the low-cost airlines filling the gap. Court documents show Musk warned OpenAI execs they would become 'the most hated men in America' days before the trial began Palantir beats earnings expectations, with revenue rising 85% on booming US business Dow, S&P 500, Nasdaq drop, oil surges as Middle East attacks escalate GameStop’s CEO dodged questions on funding the deal, leaving investors uneasy Dow sags while S&P 500, Nasdaq waver as Hormuz tensions rise Why trade deficits under Trump are so difficult to understand (and so easy to spin) Buying record highs looks riskier in the Nasdaq and Russell 2000 than in the broader market Would a gas tax holiday lower prices? What drivers should know. Wall Street sees more market gains as strong earnings fuel the AI trade The April jobs report and more major first quarter results await investors this week. April added roughly $1.2 trillion to Alphabet’s market value, or just over 50 times Google’s IPO valuation. Toto Wolff on Mercedes F1's dominant start, the 'outstanding' Kimi Antonelli, and why vulnerability is a leader's 'superpower' The average cost of college in 2026 (and how to pay for it) Network shakeups hit Medicare Advantage, forcing retirees to pay up or find new care Jerome Powell's Fed years were an everything rally The Iran War almost upended spring homebuying, but so far the market is showing 'surprising resilience' Berkshire Hathaway's profits double as shareholders gather for the annual meeting in Omaha (Associated Press) Bankrupt carrier Spirit Airlines ceased operations Saturday, the industry's first closure linked to the Iran war. If Spirit Airlines shuts down, travel chaos could ramp up. Here's how to protect your summer travel plans. The S&P 500 and Nasdaq jumped to record highs as the AI trade fueled a tech rally The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq advanced after hitting record highs as earnings rolled in Apple's earnings beat is part of an amazing trend AI developers are snapping up Mac minis, sparking a shortage that could drag on for months Apple beats earnings estimates on strong iPhone and China sales Dow jumps 750 points, S&P 500 and Nasdaq notch record highs to end the best month for stocks since 2020 The AI earnings bonanza is splitting investors Trump bets Hormuz blockade will break Iran before triggering a global crisis US stocks climb as economic updates, solid earnings roll in and Big Techs buoy AI hopes Nvidia has powered one third of the Mag 7's bull market gains Results from four Big Tech companies showed combined AI spending reaching an eye-popping $725 billion this year. Microsoft tops earnings estimates, says AI business up 123% year over year Meta stock falls despite earnings beat as AI spending plans spook investors Alphabet earnings top estimates on strong Google Cloud growth The Dow and S&P 500 slipped as oil surged, with Big Tech earnings on deck Powell will stay on as governor, says he has no choice amid legal attacks on Fed Powell holds what is expected to be his final press conference as chair after the Fed keeps rates steady Fed holds interest rates steady with no end to Iran war in sight Elon Musk testified again in the OpenAI trial, describing his behavior at the company and its nonprofit 'halo' A Senate committee confirmed Kevin Warsh, sending his nomination to be chairman of the Fed to the full Senate Stocks slipped at the open as investors awaited a Fed decision and Big Tech earnings The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq dropped as chip stocks sank and oil rose S&P 500 and Nasdaq sink, Dow rises as OpenAI-linked stocks falter and UAE exits OPEC The United Arab Emirates will leave OPEC+ effective May 1 The only number that matters for 'Magnificent 7' earnings this week The S&P 500 and Nasdaq notched fresh records, while oil edged higher as markets weighed Iran peace odds Gasoline prices are expected to turn higher as oil holds above $100 per barrel amid uncertainty over the US-Iran war US stocks open mixed as markets brace for a big week of Big Tech earnings. The rapid run-up in chip stocks has reignited the AI trade as the S&P 500 and Nasdaq sit at record highs. Americans are feeling less confident about their retirement savings. Here are some of the best ways to get started early. Global pharmaceutical company Pfizer (NYSE:PFE) will be reporting results this Tuesday before the bell. Here’s what investors should know. Pfizer beat analysts’ revenue expectations last quarter, reporting revenues of $17.56 billion, down 1.2% year on year. It was a mixed quarter for the company, with an impressive beat of analysts’ revenue estimates but a significant miss of analysts’ organic revenue estimates. Is Pfizer a buy or sell going into earnings?Read our full analysis here, it’s free for active Edge members. This quarter, the market is expecting Pfizer’s revenue to be flat year on year, improving from the 7.8% decrease it recorded in the same quarter last year. Heading into earnings, analysts covering the company have grown increasingly bearish with revenue estimates seeing in majority downward revisions over the last 30 days. Pfizer rarely misses Wall Street’s revenue estimates. Looking at Pfizer’s peers in the branded pharmaceuticals segment, some have already reported their Q1 results, giving us a hint as to what we can expect. Eli Lilly delivered year-on-year revenue growth of 55.5%, beating analysts’ expectations by 13.7%, and Merck reported revenues up 4.9%, topping estimates by 3%. Eli Lilly traded up 13.2% following the results while Merck was also up 1%. How is Pfizer's stock performing versus competitors? What was Pfizer's recent financial performance trend? What are analysts expecting for Pfizer's quarterly revenue? How did Pfizer's pharmaceutical peers perform recently? Read our full analysis ofEli Lilly’s results hereandMerck’s results here. There has been positive sentiment among investors in the branded pharmaceuticals segment, with share prices up 6% on average over the last month. Pfizer is down 5.2% during the same time and is heading into earnings with an average analyst price target of $29.00 (compared to the current share price of $26.38). WHILE YOU’RE HERE: The Next Palantir?One satellite company captures images of every point on Earth. Every single day. The Pentagon wants it. Hedge funds are using it to beat earnings. You’ve probably never heard of it. This is what the early days of Palantir looked like before it became a $437 billion giant. Same playbook. Different technology. If you missed Palantir, you need to see this.Claim The Stock Ticker for Free HERE. Weʼre unable to load stories right now. Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Sign in to access your portfolio