Title: Pfizer Stock: Still Priced Like It's Dead Money
Date: 2026-05-03 23:35
URL: https://www.fool.com/investing/2026/05/03/pfizer-stock-still-priced-like-its-dead-money/?.tsrc=rss

Shares of Pfizer are down 50% from their 2021 high, and the yield is an alluring 6.4%. During the coronavirus pandemic, investors got a little too excited aboutPfizer's(PFE0.11%)vaccine opportunity. When demand for COVID vaccines cooled off, the stock plunged. And it hasn't really gone anywhere since, still down over 50% from its 2021 high. But Pfizer isn't dead money if you have a long-term view of investing. Here's why you might still want to buy it. Pfizer is dealing with some headwinds. The drop in demand for COVID vaccines is just one example of the issues management is dealing with. Another is a series of upcoming patent cliffs, when generic competition is likely to lead to material revenue declines for some of the company's key drugs. And then there is the fact that Pfizer has yet to bringa GLP-1 weight-loss drugto market, leaving others to benefit from strong demand for such products. Image source: Getty Images. However, investors shouldn't count Pfizer out just yet. It has quickly pivoted on the GLP-1 side, buying a company with an attractive weight-loss drug in development. It also partnered with a Chinese company working on a GLP-1 pill, signing up to distribute the drug if it gets approved. It also has ongoing, and advanced, efforts to develop drugs in the oncology and migraine spaces. Pfizer remains a highly innovative company. And a strong competitor inthe highly competitive pharmaceutical sector. It may not be hitting on all cylinders right now, but history suggests that the company will eventually get back on track. This Card Just Received a Rare 5-Star Rating Our team of credit card pros don’t just recommend this card—they actually use it. Motley Fool Money calls it a top pick for a reason. The real problem here is that investors are so focused on companies like Eli Lilly(LLY+0.44%), which are doing very well thanks to its GLP-1 drugs, that they are ignoring Pfizer. That's not surprising, but it could be a mistake, particularly if you area dividend investor. Eli Lilly's yield is a tiny 0.6% as it trades near all-time highs, while Pfizer's yield is a huge 6.4% as it languishes at low levels. Pfizer's dividend will be under pressure until the company introduces new blockbuster drugs to replace those set to lose patent protection over the next couple of years. However, management has specifically stated that supporting the current dividend payment is a key corporate goal. When our analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all,Stock Advisor’stotal average return is968%*— a market-crushing outperformance compared to202%for the S&P 500. They just revealed what they believe are the10 best stocksfor investors to buy right now,available when you joinStock Advisor. *Stock Advisor returns as of May 5, 2026. Investors are getting paid very well to deal with some near-term uncertainty while waiting for Pfizer's research and development efforts to bear fruit. And, if history is any guide, when Pfizer gets back on track, it will likely be afforded a higher valuation. So this income stock could turn into a growth stock if you stick around long enough.     Before you buy stock inPfizer, consider this: The Motley FoolStock Advisoranalyst team just identified what they believe are the10 best stocksfor investors to buy now… andPfizerwasn’t one of them. The 10 stocks that made the cut could produce monster returns in the coming years. Consider whenNetflixmade this list on December 17, 2004... if you invested $1,000 at the time of our recommendation,you’d have $496,473!*Or whenNvidiamade this list on April 15, 2005... if you invested $1,000 at the time of our recommendation,you’d have $1,216,605!* Now, it’s worth notingStock Advisor’s total average return is968% — a market-crushing outperformance compared to202%for the S&P 500. Don't miss the latest top 10 list, available withStock Advisor, and join an investing community built by individual investors for individual investors. See the 10 stocks › *Stock Advisor returns as of May 5, 2026.  Reuben Gregg Brewerhas no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Pfizer. The Motley Fool has adisclosure policy. This tech could reach $80 trillion. Imagine a technology worth over18 Nvidias. What in the world could be worth 18 Nvidias? The answer is a radical tech breakthrough that our experts think is transforming every walk of life. And this giant leap forward has many on Wall Street very excited. Continue ›  *Average returns of all recommendations since inception. Cost basis and return based on previous market day close. This Card Just Received a Rare 5-Star Rating Our team of credit card pros don’t just recommend this card—they actually use it. Motley Fool Money calls it a top pick for a reason. Invest better with The Motley Fool. Get stock recommendations, portfolio guidance, and more from The Motley Fool's premium services. Making the world smarter, happier, and richer. ©1995-2026The Motley Fool. All rights reserved. Market data powered byXigniteandPolygon.io. About The Motley Fool Our Services Around the Globe Free Tools Affiliates & Friends