Title: MTS Health Partners Appoints Sally Susman as Senior Advisor
Date: 2026-05-04 13:00
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/sectors/healthcare/articles/mts-health-partners-appoints-sally-130000839.html?.tsrc=rss

Oops, something went wrong Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Spirit Airlines is gone. Here are the low-cost airlines filling the gap. Court documents show Musk warned OpenAI execs they would become 'the most hated men in America' days before the trial began Palantir beats earnings expectations, with revenue rising 85% on booming US business Dow, S&P 500, Nasdaq drop, oil surges as Middle East attacks escalate GameStop’s CEO dodged questions on funding the deal, leaving investors uneasy Dow sags while S&P 500, Nasdaq waver as Hormuz tensions rise Why trade deficits under Trump are so difficult to understand (and so easy to spin) Buying record highs looks riskier in the Nasdaq and Russell 2000 than in the broader market Would a gas tax holiday lower prices? What drivers should know. Wall Street sees more market gains as strong earnings fuel the AI trade The April jobs report and more major first quarter results await investors this week. April added roughly $1.2 trillion to Alphabet’s market value, or just over 50 times Google’s IPO valuation. Toto Wolff on Mercedes F1's dominant start, the 'outstanding' Kimi Antonelli, and why vulnerability is a leader's 'superpower' The average cost of college in 2026 (and how to pay for it) Network shakeups hit Medicare Advantage, forcing retirees to pay up or find new care Jerome Powell's Fed years were an everything rally The Iran War almost upended spring homebuying, but so far the market is showing 'surprising resilience' Berkshire Hathaway's profits double as shareholders gather for the annual meeting in Omaha (Associated Press) Bankrupt carrier Spirit Airlines ceased operations Saturday, the industry's first closure linked to the Iran war. If Spirit Airlines shuts down, travel chaos could ramp up. Here's how to protect your summer travel plans. The S&P 500 and Nasdaq jumped to record highs as the AI trade fueled a tech rally The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq advanced after hitting record highs as earnings rolled in Apple's earnings beat is part of an amazing trend AI developers are snapping up Mac minis, sparking a shortage that could drag on for months Apple beats earnings estimates on strong iPhone and China sales Dow jumps 750 points, S&P 500 and Nasdaq notch record highs to end the best month for stocks since 2020 The AI earnings bonanza is splitting investors Trump bets Hormuz blockade will break Iran before triggering a global crisis US stocks climb as economic updates, solid earnings roll in and Big Techs buoy AI hopes Nvidia has powered one third of the Mag 7's bull market gains Results from four Big Tech companies showed combined AI spending reaching an eye-popping $725 billion this year. Microsoft tops earnings estimates, says AI business up 123% year over year Meta stock falls despite earnings beat as AI spending plans spook investors Alphabet earnings top estimates on strong Google Cloud growth The Dow and S&P 500 slipped as oil surged, with Big Tech earnings on deck Powell will stay on as governor, says he has no choice amid legal attacks on Fed Powell holds what is expected to be his final press conference as chair after the Fed keeps rates steady Fed holds interest rates steady with no end to Iran war in sight Elon Musk testified again in the OpenAI trial, describing his behavior at the company and its nonprofit 'halo' A Senate committee confirmed Kevin Warsh, sending his nomination to be chairman of the Fed to the full Senate Stocks slipped at the open as investors awaited a Fed decision and Big Tech earnings The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq dropped as chip stocks sank and oil rose S&P 500 and Nasdaq sink, Dow rises as OpenAI-linked stocks falter and UAE exits OPEC The United Arab Emirates will leave OPEC+ effective May 1 The only number that matters for 'Magnificent 7' earnings this week The S&P 500 and Nasdaq notched fresh records, while oil edged higher as markets weighed Iran peace odds Gasoline prices are expected to turn higher as oil holds above $100 per barrel amid uncertainty over the US-Iran war US stocks open mixed as markets brace for a big week of Big Tech earnings. The rapid run-up in chip stocks has reignited the AI trade as the S&P 500 and Nasdaq sit at record highs. Americans are feeling less confident about their retirement savings. Here are some of the best ways to get started early. NEW YORK,May 4, 2026/PRNewswire/ -- MTS Health Partners, L.P. (MTS), a leading investment bank dedicated to the healthcare industry, is thrilled to announce the appointment of Sally Susman as Senior Advisor. Ms. Susman, most recently the Executive Vice President and Chief Corporate Affairs Officer at Pfizer, brings decades of global healthcare leadership and world-class strategic communications expertise to the firm. In her role as Senior Advisor, Ms. Susman will focus on elevating client engagement and teaming with our bankers to build their solution set for clients. She will work closely with MTS' team to enrich our strategic advisory capabilities and further distinguish the firm's presence across the healthcare sector. Ms. Susman will have a meaningful presence at our marquee client events and across our thought leadership initiatives. "We are excited to welcome Sally to the MTS team," said Curtis S. Lane, Founding Partner of MTS Health Partners. "Her experience leading Pfizer through such a transformational era in its history, combined with her reputation as an exceptional communicator, will be invaluable as we continue to broaden the perspective we offer our clients." "Sally's proven skills as an innovative thinker and her commitment to results, provide an edge our bankers and clients need in today's complex healthcare landscape," notes Managing Partner, Andrew Weisenfeld. "Her insights, relationships, and in-depth knowledge of the industry will be invaluable to both MTS and the clients we serve." "Joining MTS Health Partners at this pivotal moment for the healthcare industry is an extraordinary opportunity to engage in some of the most compelling transactions in the sector", says Ms. Susman. "I am excited to work alongside this talented team and help provide the kind of authentic, candid advice that builds lasting client trust." About Sally Susman Until 2026, Sally Susman served as Executive Vice President and Chief Corporate Affairs Officer at Pfizer, where she spearheaded the company's communications during the COVID-19 pandemic. She is the author of the Wall Street Journal bestsellerBreaking Through: Communicating to Open Minds, Move Hearts, and Change the World. About MTS Health Partners MTS Health Partners is a leading investment bank that provides aligned strategic and financial advisory services to healthcare companies of all sizes. From global corporations to venture-backed startups, MTS delivers expert advice on M&A, capital raising, and strategic restructuring within the life sciences and healthcare services sectors. Securities related transactions are provided exclusively by our affiliate, MTS Securities, LLC, a broker-dealer registered with the SEC and a member of FINRA and SIPC. For more information about MTS Health Partners, please visitwww.mtspartners.com CONTACT: Sally Susman:susman@mtspartners.com View original content:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/mts-health-partners-appoints-sally-susman-as-senior-advisor-302760359.html Weʼre unable to load stories right now. Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Sign in to access your portfolio