Title: Guardant Health Receives FDA Approval for Guardant360® CDx as a Companion Diagnostic for Arvinas and Pfizer’s VEPPANU (vepdegestrant) for Patients with ER+/HER2- Advanced Breast Cancer with ESR1 Mutations
Date: 2026-05-04 12:05
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/sectors/healthcare/articles/guardant-health-receives-fda-approval-120500141.html?.tsrc=rss

Oops, something went wrong Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Spirit Airlines is gone. Here are the low-cost airlines filling the gap. Court documents show Musk warned OpenAI execs they would become 'the most hated men in America' days before the trial began Palantir beats earnings expectations, with revenue rising 85% on booming US business Dow, S&P 500, Nasdaq drop, oil surges as Middle East attacks escalate GameStop’s CEO dodged questions on funding the deal, leaving investors uneasy Dow sags while S&P 500, Nasdaq waver as Hormuz tensions rise Why trade deficits under Trump are so difficult to understand (and so easy to spin) Buying record highs looks riskier in the Nasdaq and Russell 2000 than in the broader market Would a gas tax holiday lower prices? What drivers should know. Wall Street sees more market gains as strong earnings fuel the AI trade The April jobs report and more major first quarter results await investors this week. April added roughly $1.2 trillion to Alphabet’s market value, or just over 50 times Google’s IPO valuation. Toto Wolff on Mercedes F1's dominant start, the 'outstanding' Kimi Antonelli, and why vulnerability is a leader's 'superpower' The average cost of college in 2026 (and how to pay for it) Network shakeups hit Medicare Advantage, forcing retirees to pay up or find new care Jerome Powell's Fed years were an everything rally The Iran War almost upended spring homebuying, but so far the market is showing 'surprising resilience' Berkshire Hathaway's profits double as shareholders gather for the annual meeting in Omaha (Associated Press) Bankrupt carrier Spirit Airlines ceased operations Saturday, the industry's first closure linked to the Iran war. If Spirit Airlines shuts down, travel chaos could ramp up. Here's how to protect your summer travel plans. The S&P 500 and Nasdaq jumped to record highs as the AI trade fueled a tech rally The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq advanced after hitting record highs as earnings rolled in Apple's earnings beat is part of an amazing trend AI developers are snapping up Mac minis, sparking a shortage that could drag on for months Apple beats earnings estimates on strong iPhone and China sales Dow jumps 750 points, S&P 500 and Nasdaq notch record highs to end the best month for stocks since 2020 The AI earnings bonanza is splitting investors Trump bets Hormuz blockade will break Iran before triggering a global crisis US stocks climb as economic updates, solid earnings roll in and Big Techs buoy AI hopes Nvidia has powered one third of the Mag 7's bull market gains Results from four Big Tech companies showed combined AI spending reaching an eye-popping $725 billion this year. Microsoft tops earnings estimates, says AI business up 123% year over year Meta stock falls despite earnings beat as AI spending plans spook investors Alphabet earnings top estimates on strong Google Cloud growth The Dow and S&P 500 slipped as oil surged, with Big Tech earnings on deck Powell will stay on as governor, says he has no choice amid legal attacks on Fed Powell holds what is expected to be his final press conference as chair after the Fed keeps rates steady Fed holds interest rates steady with no end to Iran war in sight Elon Musk testified again in the OpenAI trial, describing his behavior at the company and its nonprofit 'halo' A Senate committee confirmed Kevin Warsh, sending his nomination to be chairman of the Fed to the full Senate Stocks slipped at the open as investors awaited a Fed decision and Big Tech earnings The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq dropped as chip stocks sank and oil rose S&P 500 and Nasdaq sink, Dow rises as OpenAI-linked stocks falter and UAE exits OPEC The United Arab Emirates will leave OPEC+ effective May 1 The only number that matters for 'Magnificent 7' earnings this week The S&P 500 and Nasdaq notched fresh records, while oil edged higher as markets weighed Iran peace odds Gasoline prices are expected to turn higher as oil holds above $100 per barrel amid uncertainty over the US-Iran war US stocks open mixed as markets brace for a big week of Big Tech earnings. The rapid run-up in chip stocks has reignited the AI trade as the S&P 500 and Nasdaq sit at record highs. Americans are feeling less confident about their retirement savings. Here are some of the best ways to get started early. Blood-based test enables identification of patients eligible for targeted treatment withVEPPANU™ Approval marks Guardant’s third ESR1 companion diagnostic FDA approval to help guide timely treatment decisions for patients with advanced breast cancer PALO ALTO, Calif., May 04, 2026--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Guardant Health, Inc. (Nasdaq: GH), a leading precision oncology company, today announced that the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved the Guardant360® CDx liquid biopsy test as a companion diagnostic for VEPPANU (vepdegestrant). VEPPANU, jointly developed by Arvinas, Inc. and Pfizer Inc., is approved for the treatment of adults with estrogen receptor-positive (ER+), human epidermal growth factor receptor 2-negative (HER2-), estrogen receptor 1 (ESR1)-mutated advanced or metastatic breast cancer, as detected by an FDA-authorized test, with disease progression following at least one line of endocrine therapy. The approval of Guardant360 CDx enables a non-invasive, blood-based method to identify patients with ESR1 mutations who may be eligible for treatment with VEPPANU. ESR1 mutations are a known mechanism of resistance to endocrine therapy and are commonly observed in patients with advanced disease. "This latest FDA approval using Guardant360 CDx reflects where cancer care is headed using blood-based testing to detect resistance earlier and guide smarter treatment decisions," said Helmy Eltoukhy, Guardant Health chairman and co-CEO. "By identifying ESR1 mutations with just a simple blood draw, we’re helping bring more precise, personalized options to patients when they need them most." Vepdegestrant, discovered by Arvinas and co-developed with Pfizer, is a PROteolysis TArgeting Chimera (PROTAC), a type of heterobifunctional protein degrader therapy. It is designed to selectively degrade the estrogen receptor, offering a targeted treatment option for patients whose cancers are driven by ESR1 mutations. The approval is supported by clinical data demonstrating the clinical utility of identifying ESR1 mutations to guide treatment selection in ER+/HER2- advanced breast cancer. This latest FDA approval for Guardant360 CDx marks the third ESR1 companion diagnostic approval. It is the 26thcompanion diagnostic indication across multiple tumor types, building on the platform’s increasing clinical utility and broad coverage by Medicare and commercial payers, representing more than 300 million covered lives. About Guardant360® CDx Guardant360 CDx is the first FDA-approved liquid biopsy for comprehensive genomic profiling. It detects multiple genomic alterations across all solid tumors and is approved as a companion diagnostic for therapies in non-small cell lung cancer, breast cancer, and colorectal cancer. For more information, visit Guardant360 CDx. About Guardant Health Guardant Health is a leading precision oncology company focused on guarding wellness and giving every person more time free from cancer. Founded in 2012, Guardant is transforming patient care and accelerating new cancer therapies by providing critical insights into what drives disease through its advanced blood and tissue tests, real-world data and AI analytics. Guardant tests help improve outcomes across all stages of care, including screening to find cancer early, monitoring for recurrence in early-stage cancer, and treatment selection for patients with advanced cancer. For more information, visitguardanthealth.comand follow the company onLinkedIn,X (Twitter)andFacebook. Guardant Health Forward-Looking Statements This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities laws, including statements regarding the potential utilities, values, benefits and advantages of Guardant Health’s liquid biopsy tests or assays, which involve risks and uncertainties that could cause the actual results to differ materially from the anticipated results and expectations expressed in these forward-looking statements. These statements are based on current expectations, forecasts and assumptions, and actual outcomes and results could differ materially from these statements due to a number of factors. These and additional risks and uncertainties that could affect Guardant Health’s financial and operating results and cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by the forward-looking statements made in this press release include those discussed under the captions "Risk Factors" and "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation" and elsewhere in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2025 and in its other reports filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. The forward-looking statements in this press release are based on information available to Guardant Health as of the date hereof, and Guardant Health disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements provided to reflect any change in its expectations or any change in events, conditions, or circumstances on which any such statement is based, except as required by law. These forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing Guardant Health’s views as of any date subsequent to the date of this press release. View source version on businesswire.com:https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20260504905593/en/ Contacts Investor Contact:Zarak Khurshidinvestors@guardanthealth.com Media Contact:Meaghan Smithpress@guardanthealth.com Weʼre unable to load stories right now. Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Sign in to access your portfolio