Title: Jim Cramer on Pfizer: “If I Want Good Yield, I’ll Buy a Bond”
Date: 2026-05-04 18:21
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/jim-cramer-pfizer-want-good-182114370.html?.tsrc=rss

Oops, something went wrong Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Spirit Airlines is gone. Here are the low-cost airlines filling the gap. Court documents show Musk warned OpenAI execs they would become 'the most hated men in America' days before the trial began Palantir beats earnings expectations, with revenue rising 85% on booming US business Dow, S&P 500, Nasdaq drop, oil surges as Middle East attacks escalate GameStop’s CEO dodged questions on funding the deal, leaving investors uneasy Dow sags while S&P 500, Nasdaq waver as Hormuz tensions rise Why trade deficits under Trump are so difficult to understand (and so easy to spin) Buying record highs looks riskier in the Nasdaq and Russell 2000 than in the broader market Would a gas tax holiday lower prices? What drivers should know. Wall Street sees more market gains as strong earnings fuel the AI trade The April jobs report and more major first quarter results await investors this week. April added roughly $1.2 trillion to Alphabet’s market value, or just over 50 times Google’s IPO valuation. Toto Wolff on Mercedes F1's dominant start, the 'outstanding' Kimi Antonelli, and why vulnerability is a leader's 'superpower' The average cost of college in 2026 (and how to pay for it) Network shakeups hit Medicare Advantage, forcing retirees to pay up or find new care Jerome Powell's Fed years were an everything rally The Iran War almost upended spring homebuying, but so far the market is showing 'surprising resilience' Berkshire Hathaway's profits double as shareholders gather for the annual meeting in Omaha (Associated Press) Bankrupt carrier Spirit Airlines ceased operations Saturday, the industry's first closure linked to the Iran war. If Spirit Airlines shuts down, travel chaos could ramp up. Here's how to protect your summer travel plans. The S&P 500 and Nasdaq jumped to record highs as the AI trade fueled a tech rally The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq advanced after hitting record highs as earnings rolled in Apple's earnings beat is part of an amazing trend AI developers are snapping up Mac minis, sparking a shortage that could drag on for months Apple beats earnings estimates on strong iPhone and China sales Dow jumps 750 points, S&P 500 and Nasdaq notch record highs to end the best month for stocks since 2020 The AI earnings bonanza is splitting investors Trump bets Hormuz blockade will break Iran before triggering a global crisis US stocks climb as economic updates, solid earnings roll in and Big Techs buoy AI hopes Nvidia has powered one third of the Mag 7's bull market gains Results from four Big Tech companies showed combined AI spending reaching an eye-popping $725 billion this year. Microsoft tops earnings estimates, says AI business up 123% year over year Meta stock falls despite earnings beat as AI spending plans spook investors Alphabet earnings top estimates on strong Google Cloud growth The Dow and S&P 500 slipped as oil surged, with Big Tech earnings on deck Powell will stay on as governor, says he has no choice amid legal attacks on Fed Powell holds what is expected to be his final press conference as chair after the Fed keeps rates steady Fed holds interest rates steady with no end to Iran war in sight Elon Musk testified again in the OpenAI trial, describing his behavior at the company and its nonprofit 'halo' A Senate committee confirmed Kevin Warsh, sending his nomination to be chairman of the Fed to the full Senate Stocks slipped at the open as investors awaited a Fed decision and Big Tech earnings The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq dropped as chip stocks sank and oil rose S&P 500 and Nasdaq sink, Dow rises as OpenAI-linked stocks falter and UAE exits OPEC The United Arab Emirates will leave OPEC+ effective May 1 The only number that matters for 'Magnificent 7' earnings this week The S&P 500 and Nasdaq notched fresh records, while oil edged higher as markets weighed Iran peace odds Gasoline prices are expected to turn higher as oil holds above $100 per barrel amid uncertainty over the US-Iran war US stocks open mixed as markets brace for a big week of Big Tech earnings. The rapid run-up in chip stocks has reignited the AI trade as the S&P 500 and Nasdaq sit at record highs. Americans are feeling less confident about their retirement savings. Here are some of the best ways to get started early. Pfizer Inc. (NYSE:PFE) was among thestocks on Jim Cramer’s radar on Mad Money as he discussed the upcoming earnings. Cramer noted that the stock was cheap with a good yield, as he remarked: Hey, can Pfizer break out of its multi-year rut? Now, a lot depends on the presentation because I haven’t seen any needle movers in the portfolio. Primarily cheap, good yield, but if I want good yield, I’ll buy a bond. Photo bySpencer DavisonUnsplash Pfizer Inc. (NYSE:PFE) develops and sells medicines and vaccines for several health conditions, including heart disease, infections, COVID-19, and rare diseases. Cramer discussed the stock in detail during the March 25 episode, as he stated: In a slowdown, the hedge fund playbook says you want safety stocks. The stocks of companies that will make good money even if the broader economy deteriorates dramatically, the opposite of cyclical stocks. For example, big pharma. Now, if you need a medication, you’ll keep taking it in good times and bad. You don’t skip a dose. This is textbook recession-proof… And within big pharma, Lang likes Pfizer, Merck, and Bristol-Myers, three stocks with strong dividend yields that are seeing substantial institutional buying right now. I like all three, by the way. Let’s start with the daily chart of Pfizer, right, which Lang says is his favorite in the group. Lately, he points out that Pfizer has had strong volume trends, meaning the stock tends to rally on high volume… By the way, when it declines, it’s usually on lower volume… For technicians, volume is like a polygraph… High volume on up days and lower volume on down days mean you’ve got an honest uptrend on your hands. Pfizer also has made a series of higher highs and higher lows… But this is textbook. It’s exactly how you want to see it. The stock remains above its 50-day moving average… These are all bullish readings. Plus, the stock’s made a bullish cup and handle… This is one of the most reliably positive formations out there. Very encouraging… Take a look at the Chaikin Money Flow. Alright, this is an indicator that shows you whether big institutions are buying or selling. It spent most of this year in bullish territory, which tells us that institutional money managers are eagerly buying Pfizer here. At the same time, Lang likes that Pfizer pays you a bountiful 6.3% dividend yield. Now, I’m debating talking about Pfizer at our club meeting… but everything says fine. I just need to know their product flow better. While we acknowledge the potential of PFE as an investment, we believe certain AI stocks offer greater upside potential and carry less downside risk. If you're looking for an extremely undervalued AI stock that also stands to benefit significantly from Trump-era tariffs and the onshoring trend, see our free report on thebest short-term AI stock. READ NEXT:33 Stocks That Should Double in 3 Yearsand15 Stocks That Will Make You Rich in 10 Years Disclosure: None.Follow Insider Monkey on Google News. Weʼre unable to load stories right now. Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Sign in to access your portfolio