Title: Apple Plans to Let Users Build Their Own Passes in iOS 27 Wallet App
Date: 2026-05-05 02:45
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/sectors/technology/articles/apple-plans-let-users-build-173410420.html?.tsrc=rss

Oops, something went wrong Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Spirit Airlines is gone. Here are the low-cost airlines filling the gap. Court documents show Musk warned OpenAI execs they would become 'the most hated men in America' days before the trial began Palantir beats earnings expectations, with revenue rising 85% on booming US business Dow, S&P 500, Nasdaq drop, oil surges as Middle East attacks escalate GameStop’s CEO dodged questions on funding the deal, leaving investors uneasy Dow sags while S&P 500, Nasdaq waver as Hormuz tensions rise Why trade deficits under Trump are so difficult to understand (and so easy to spin) Buying record highs looks riskier in the Nasdaq and Russell 2000 than in the broader market Would a gas tax holiday lower prices? What drivers should know. Wall Street sees more market gains as strong earnings fuel the AI trade The April jobs report and more major first quarter results await investors this week. April added roughly $1.2 trillion to Alphabet’s market value, or just over 50 times Google’s IPO valuation. Toto Wolff on Mercedes F1's dominant start, the 'outstanding' Kimi Antonelli, and why vulnerability is a leader's 'superpower' The average cost of college in 2026 (and how to pay for it) Network shakeups hit Medicare Advantage, forcing retirees to pay up or find new care Jerome Powell's Fed years were an everything rally The Iran War almost upended spring homebuying, but so far the market is showing 'surprising resilience' Berkshire Hathaway's profits double as shareholders gather for the annual meeting in Omaha (Associated Press) Bankrupt carrier Spirit Airlines ceased operations Saturday, the industry's first closure linked to the Iran war. If Spirit Airlines shuts down, travel chaos could ramp up. Here's how to protect your summer travel plans. The S&P 500 and Nasdaq jumped to record highs as the AI trade fueled a tech rally The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq advanced after hitting record highs as earnings rolled in Apple's earnings beat is part of an amazing trend AI developers are snapping up Mac minis, sparking a shortage that could drag on for months Apple beats earnings estimates on strong iPhone and China sales Dow jumps 750 points, S&P 500 and Nasdaq notch record highs to end the best month for stocks since 2020 The AI earnings bonanza is splitting investors Trump bets Hormuz blockade will break Iran before triggering a global crisis US stocks climb as economic updates, solid earnings roll in and Big Techs buoy AI hopes Nvidia has powered one third of the Mag 7's bull market gains Results from four Big Tech companies showed combined AI spending reaching an eye-popping $725 billion this year. Microsoft tops earnings estimates, says AI business up 123% year over year Meta stock falls despite earnings beat as AI spending plans spook investors Alphabet earnings top estimates on strong Google Cloud growth The Dow and S&P 500 slipped as oil surged, with Big Tech earnings on deck Powell will stay on as governor, says he has no choice amid legal attacks on Fed Powell holds what is expected to be his final press conference as chair after the Fed keeps rates steady Fed holds interest rates steady with no end to Iran war in sight Elon Musk testified again in the OpenAI trial, describing his behavior at the company and its nonprofit 'halo' A Senate committee confirmed Kevin Warsh, sending his nomination to be chairman of the Fed to the full Senate Stocks slipped at the open as investors awaited a Fed decision and Big Tech earnings The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq dropped as chip stocks sank and oil rose S&P 500 and Nasdaq sink, Dow rises as OpenAI-linked stocks falter and UAE exits OPEC The United Arab Emirates will leave OPEC+ effective May 1 The only number that matters for 'Magnificent 7' earnings this week The S&P 500 and Nasdaq notched fresh records, while oil edged higher as markets weighed Iran peace odds Gasoline prices are expected to turn higher as oil holds above $100 per barrel amid uncertainty over the US-Iran war US stocks open mixed as markets brace for a big week of Big Tech earnings. The rapid run-up in chip stocks has reignited the AI trade as the S&P 500 and Nasdaq sit at record highs. Americans are feeling less confident about their retirement savings. Here are some of the best ways to get started early. (Bloomberg) -- Apple Inc. is preparing a new “Create a Pass” feature for its next major iPhone software update, allowing users to build and customize their own digital tickets and gift cards within the Wallet app. Most Read from Bloomberg China’s Unprecedented Defiance of US Sanctions Triggers Showdown US and Iran Trade Fire in Gulf, Jolting Four-Week-Old Truce Former NYC Mayor Giuliani in Critical Condition, Trump Says US Has Opened a Passage Through Hormuz, Central Command Says Beijing Tells China Firms to Ignore US Sanctions on Refiners Today, the Wallet app is primarily used to access passes from third-party apps, along with credit and debit cards for Apple Pay, digital keys and retailer gift cards. But many services still don’t offer passes that are compatible with the Wallet platform. To address that gap, Apple has developed a pass-building tool for iOS 27 Wallet, according to people with knowledge of the matter. The feature lets users take a QR code and generate a custom pass around it, said the people, who asked not to be identified because the plans haven’t been announced. The capability is designed for situations where, for example, a gym or concert app provides a QR code for entry but doesn’t support the Wallet app. With the new tool, users can import that code and create their own pass. In test versions of the upcoming operating system, the feature is accessible via the “+” button in the Wallet app and through the page where users normally add new credit cards. The interface prompts users to “create passes for tickets, memberships, gift cards and more.” Users can create a pass from scratch or rely on the iPhone’s camera to take a QR code and turn it into a digital ticket. The feature includes customization tools for styles, images, colors and text fields, allowing users to tailor the information displayed on each pass. Apple is testing three template options: standard, membership and event. Standard, in orange, is a default option for any type of pass, while membership, in blue, is geared toward entering places like gyms. The event pass, in purple, is meant for tickets to games, movies and other occasions. A spokesperson for Cupertino, California-based Apple declined to comment. Software code discovered online had already indicated that the company was working on a new tool for creating passes, but the details of the approach haven’t been reported. The addition will make iOS a bit more competitive with Android, which has long offered a similar feature within the Google Wallet app. The pass builder is one of several enhancements planned for iOS 27 and Apple’s broader software lineup this fall. The updates — built around new artificial intelligence features and performance upgrades — are set to be unveiled in June at the company’s annual Worldwide Developers Conference. Besides the new Wallet feature, Apple is planning a revamped Siri voice assistant and an accompanying app. There will be more options to tap into external voice-controlled chat services and expanded in-house AI features across photo editing, the camera app and visual intelligence, Bloomberg News has reported. (Updated to note that Google offers similar functionality in Android.) Most Read from Bloomberg Businessweek America’s Go-To Autism Therapy Is Also the Most Controversial Whatnot Has Americans Hooked on Livestream Shopping The Risky Pivot Inside Australia’s Pension System It’s Boating Season, But Only If You Can Afford Fuel Running America’s Second-Busiest Airport in Turbulent Times ©2026 Bloomberg L.P. Weʼre unable to load stories right now. Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Sign in to access your portfolio