Title: Top Stock Reports for Alphabet, Walmart & Micron
Date: 2026-05-04 20:11
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/top-stock-reports-alphabet-walmart-201100777.html?.tsrc=rss

Oops, something went wrong Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Spirit Airlines is gone. Here are the low-cost airlines filling the gap. Court documents show Musk warned OpenAI execs they would become 'the most hated men in America' days before the trial began Palantir beats earnings expectations, with revenue rising 85% on booming US business Dow, S&P 500, Nasdaq drop, oil surges as Middle East attacks escalate GameStop’s CEO dodged questions on funding the deal, leaving investors uneasy Dow sags while S&P 500, Nasdaq waver as Hormuz tensions rise Why trade deficits under Trump are so difficult to understand (and so easy to spin) Buying record highs looks riskier in the Nasdaq and Russell 2000 than in the broader market Would a gas tax holiday lower prices? What drivers should know. Wall Street sees more market gains as strong earnings fuel the AI trade The April jobs report and more major first quarter results await investors this week. April added roughly $1.2 trillion to Alphabet’s market value, or just over 50 times Google’s IPO valuation. Toto Wolff on Mercedes F1's dominant start, the 'outstanding' Kimi Antonelli, and why vulnerability is a leader's 'superpower' The average cost of college in 2026 (and how to pay for it) Network shakeups hit Medicare Advantage, forcing retirees to pay up or find new care Jerome Powell's Fed years were an everything rally The Iran War almost upended spring homebuying, but so far the market is showing 'surprising resilience' Berkshire Hathaway's profits double as shareholders gather for the annual meeting in Omaha (Associated Press) Bankrupt carrier Spirit Airlines ceased operations Saturday, the industry's first closure linked to the Iran war. If Spirit Airlines shuts down, travel chaos could ramp up. Here's how to protect your summer travel plans. The S&P 500 and Nasdaq jumped to record highs as the AI trade fueled a tech rally The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq advanced after hitting record highs as earnings rolled in Apple's earnings beat is part of an amazing trend AI developers are snapping up Mac minis, sparking a shortage that could drag on for months Apple beats earnings estimates on strong iPhone and China sales Dow jumps 750 points, S&P 500 and Nasdaq notch record highs to end the best month for stocks since 2020 The AI earnings bonanza is splitting investors Trump bets Hormuz blockade will break Iran before triggering a global crisis US stocks climb as economic updates, solid earnings roll in and Big Techs buoy AI hopes Nvidia has powered one third of the Mag 7's bull market gains Results from four Big Tech companies showed combined AI spending reaching an eye-popping $725 billion this year. Microsoft tops earnings estimates, says AI business up 123% year over year Meta stock falls despite earnings beat as AI spending plans spook investors Alphabet earnings top estimates on strong Google Cloud growth The Dow and S&P 500 slipped as oil surged, with Big Tech earnings on deck Powell will stay on as governor, says he has no choice amid legal attacks on Fed Powell holds what is expected to be his final press conference as chair after the Fed keeps rates steady Fed holds interest rates steady with no end to Iran war in sight Elon Musk testified again in the OpenAI trial, describing his behavior at the company and its nonprofit 'halo' A Senate committee confirmed Kevin Warsh, sending his nomination to be chairman of the Fed to the full Senate Stocks slipped at the open as investors awaited a Fed decision and Big Tech earnings The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq dropped as chip stocks sank and oil rose S&P 500 and Nasdaq sink, Dow rises as OpenAI-linked stocks falter and UAE exits OPEC The United Arab Emirates will leave OPEC+ effective May 1 The only number that matters for 'Magnificent 7' earnings this week The S&P 500 and Nasdaq notched fresh records, while oil edged higher as markets weighed Iran peace odds Gasoline prices are expected to turn higher as oil holds above $100 per barrel amid uncertainty over the US-Iran war US stocks open mixed as markets brace for a big week of Big Tech earnings. The rapid run-up in chip stocks has reignited the AI trade as the S&P 500 and Nasdaq sit at record highs. Americans are feeling less confident about their retirement savings. Here are some of the best ways to get started early. Monday, May 4, 2026The Zacks Research Daily presents the best research output of our analyst team. Today's Research Daily features new research reports on 16 major stocks, including Alphabet Inc. (GOOGL), Walmart Inc. (WMT) and Micron Technology, Inc. (MU), as well as a micro-cap stock NeurAxis, Inc. (NRXS). The Zacks microcap research is unique as our research content on these small and under-the-radar companies is the only research of its type in the country.These research reports have been hand-picked from the roughly 70 reports published by our analyst team today.You cansee all of today’s research reports here >>>Ahead of Wall StreetThe daily 'Ahead of Wall Street' article is a must-read for all investors who would like to be ready for that day's trading action. The article comes out before the market opens, attempting to make sense of that morning's economic releases and how they will affect that day's market action. You can read this article for free on our home page and can actually sign up there to get an email notification as this article comes out each morning.You can read today's AWS here >>>Pre-Markets Mixed to Begin New Trading WeekToday's Featured Research ReportsAlphabet’sshares have outperformed the Zacks Internet - Services industry over the past six months (+34.4% vs. +30.9%). The company’s AI-led product cycle continues to support growth across Search, Cloud and subscriptions. Search is benefitting from AI Overviews and AI Mode, which are driving higher usage and enabling new ad formats such as AI Max and direct offers in AI Mode.Google Cloud is scaling faster as enterprises adopt AI infrastructure and AI solutions, and rising backlog provides better revenue visibility over the next two years. Paid subscriptions across Google One and YouTube keep expanding, supporting a more diversified revenue mix, while Waymo’s ride volumes point to steady progress in Other Bets.Alphabet retains ample liquidity, but higher debt and elevated capital spending needs limit near-term flexibility and can create volatility in free cash flow. Overall, execution gains are balanced by spending, competition and legal risk.(You canread the full research report on Alphabet here >>>)Shares ofWalmarthave outperformed the Zacks Retail - Supermarkets industry over the past six months (+30.1% vs. +28.8%). The company continues to strengthen its position as a leading omnichannel retailer, supported by its scale, price leadership and expanding digital ecosystem. Walmart is benefiting from consistent traffic gains, resilient demand and increasing contributions from higher-margin businesses such as advertising and membership.The company's integrated store and e-commerce model enables faster fulfillment, while ongoing investments in automation and technology are improving efficiency. Disciplined inventory management and a growing marketplace platform are also supporting better working capital and profitability.While Walmart remains well placed to drive steady sales and earnings growth, margin expansion could remain gradual due to continued investments, mix shifts toward essentials and external factors such as tariffs and macroeconomic uncertainty.(You canread the full research report on Walmart here >>>)Micron’sshares have outperformed the Zacks Computer - Integrated Systems industry over the past six months (+146.1% vs. +41%). The company is benefiting from the rapidly expanding artificial intelligence (AI)-driven memory and storage markets. The positive impacts of inventory improvement across multiple end markets are driving top-line growth.The surging demand for HBM and robust DRAM pricing recovery will aid significant revenue and earnings growth in the coming quarters. Its solid financials, positive free cash flow and strong balance sheet provide the flexibility to invest in growth initiatives while enhancing shareholder value.Micron’s long-term customer agreements and expanding AI partnerships reduce volatility and enhance revenue visibility. Nonetheless, rising operating costs and a massive increase in capital expenditure pose a downside risk to Micron’s near-term profitability.(You canread the full research report on Micron here >>>)Shares ofNeurAxishave outperformed the Zacks Medical Info Systems industry over the past six months (+219.7% vs. -34.9%). This microcap company with a market capitalization of $92.96 million targets a large, underserved gut-brain disorder market with a differentiated, non-pharmacologic neuromodulation therapy supported by clinical validation and guideline inclusion.The investment thesis centers on expanding payer coverage, improving reimbursement infrastructure, and a scalable, payer-focused commercialization model that can drive broader adoption across pediatric and adult populations. Early revenue growth and high-margin potential reflect operating leverage as utilization increases, while pipeline expansion and new products add optionality.However, the story remains execution-driven, with risks tied to reimbursement consistency, adoption pace and ongoing capital needs. Continued losses and dilution risk highlight reliance on external funding. The valuation implies strong adoption and scaling, leaving limited margin for missteps.(You canread the full research report on NeurAxis here >>>)Other noteworthy reports we are featuring today include Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. (TMO), Seagate Technology Holdings plc (STX) and Roper Technologies, Inc. (ROP).Mark VickerySenior EditorNote: Sheraz Mian heads the Zacks Equity Research department and is a well-regarded expert of aggregate earnings. He is frequently quoted in the print and electronic media and publishes the weeklyEarnings TrendsandEarnings Previewreports. If you want an email notification each time Sheraz publishes a new article, pleaseclick here>>> Today's Must Read Alphabet's (GOOGL) Prospects Rides on Cloud and Search Initiatives Walmart (WMT) Benefits from Strong E-Commerce Operations Rising AI Spending, Inventory Improvement Aid Micron (MU) Featured Reports Thermo Fisher (TMO) Thrives on Innovations, Macro Woes StayThe Zacks analyst is impressed with Thermo Fisher advancing its high-impact innovation strategy with several launches, including the Glacios 3 Cryo-TEM. Macroeconomic headwinds may hurt its growth. W.R. Berkley (WRB) Solid Insurance Business Aid, Cat Loss AilPer the Zacks analyst, W.R. Berkley's Insurance business is set to grow on rate increases, and improving premiums from international unit. Yet, exposure to cat loss, increasing expenses drag margins. Jazz's (JAZZ) Marketed Drugs Fuel Sales and DiversificationWhile Jazz's neurology portfolio has exhibited strong demand, the Zacks Analyst is impressed with the company's oncology drugs whose sales diversify the existing marketed portfolio. Rising Admissions Aid Universal Health (UHS), High Costs AilPer the Zacks analyst, Universal Health's continued growth in admissions will boost its top line. However, escalating operating expenses remain a concern. Solar Demand Aids Enphase Energy (ENPH) Amid Europe SlowdownPer the Zacks analyst, Enphase Energy is benefiting from strong solar demand, but weak demand in the Netherlands and France may pressure near-term revenues. AUM Growth Aids Federated Hermes (FHI), Rising Costs AilPer the Zacks analyst, Federated Hermes' rising assets under management (AUM), driven by strategic deals, supports growth. Yet, rising costs might limit the company's bottom-line growth. Nabors (NBR) Set to Benefit from Long-Term Global Energy GrowthThe Zacks analyst believes that Nabors is set to capitalize on global energy consumption growth, though logistical challenges and supply chain inefficiencies may limit near-term profitability. New Upgrades Seagate (STX) Gains From Increasing Data Center and AI DemandPer the Zacks analyst, Seagate's cost-efficient, high-density, and reliable storage gives it a competitive edge in serving hyperscale cloud providers, social media and AI-driven enterprises. Application Software Unit Aids Roper (ROP) Amid Rising CostsPer the Zacks analyst, Roper's Application Software unit is driven by solid momentum across the Deltek, Vertafore, PowerPlan and Aderant businesses. However, High operating costs remain a concern. Sanmina (SANM) Rides on Strength in Multiple Verticals, Robust PortfolPer the Zacks analyst, solid momentum in the communications networks, cloud, and AI infrastructure will likely drive Sanmina's top line. Diverse portfolio offerings are a major advantage. New Downgrades Ryanair (RYAAY) Continues to Grapple With Rising ExpensesThe Zacks Analyst is worried about the escalating operating expenses due to high fuel costs, staff costs and higher air traffic control fees, which are likely to hurt Ryanair's bottom line. Weak housing market Ail Builders FirstSource's (BLDR) PerformancePer the Zacks analyst, Builders FirstSource business is being hurt by the ongoing softness in the housing market. Also, High input costs and elevated operating expenses remain added concerns. Warner Bros. Discovery (WBD) Prospects Hurt by Linear TV DeclinePer the Zacks analyst, Warner Bros. Discovery faces pressure from cord-cutting, weak ads, streaming competition and ARPU softness, weighing on growth and profitability. Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days.Click to get this free report Walmart Inc. (WMT) : Free Stock Analysis Report Seagate Technology Holdings PLC (STX) : Free Stock Analysis Report Micron Technology, Inc. (MU) : Free Stock Analysis Report Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. (TMO) : Free Stock Analysis Report Roper Technologies, Inc. (ROP) : Free Stock Analysis Report Alphabet Inc. (GOOGL) : Free Stock Analysis Report Neuraxis, Inc. (NRXS): Free Stock Analysis Report This article originally published on Zacks Investment Research (zacks.com). Zacks Investment Research Weʼre unable to load stories right now. Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Sign in to access your portfolio