Title: White House Weighs AI Working Group, Model Testing, NYT Reports
Date: 2026-05-04 21:19
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/sectors/technology/articles/white-house-eyes-vetting-ai-193136483.html?.tsrc=rss

Oops, something went wrong Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Spirit Airlines is gone. Here are the low-cost airlines filling the gap. Court documents show Musk warned OpenAI execs they would become 'the most hated men in America' days before the trial began Palantir beats earnings expectations, with revenue rising 85% on booming US business Dow, S&P 500, Nasdaq drop, oil surges as Middle East attacks escalate GameStop’s CEO dodged questions on funding the deal, leaving investors uneasy Dow sags while S&P 500, Nasdaq waver as Hormuz tensions rise Why trade deficits under Trump are so difficult to understand (and so easy to spin) Buying record highs looks riskier in the Nasdaq and Russell 2000 than in the broader market Would a gas tax holiday lower prices? What drivers should know. Wall Street sees more market gains as strong earnings fuel the AI trade The April jobs report and more major first quarter results await investors this week. April added roughly $1.2 trillion to Alphabet’s market value, or just over 50 times Google’s IPO valuation. Toto Wolff on Mercedes F1's dominant start, the 'outstanding' Kimi Antonelli, and why vulnerability is a leader's 'superpower' The average cost of college in 2026 (and how to pay for it) Network shakeups hit Medicare Advantage, forcing retirees to pay up or find new care Jerome Powell's Fed years were an everything rally The Iran War almost upended spring homebuying, but so far the market is showing 'surprising resilience' Berkshire Hathaway's profits double as shareholders gather for the annual meeting in Omaha (Associated Press) Bankrupt carrier Spirit Airlines ceased operations Saturday, the industry's first closure linked to the Iran war. If Spirit Airlines shuts down, travel chaos could ramp up. Here's how to protect your summer travel plans. The S&P 500 and Nasdaq jumped to record highs as the AI trade fueled a tech rally The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq advanced after hitting record highs as earnings rolled in Apple's earnings beat is part of an amazing trend AI developers are snapping up Mac minis, sparking a shortage that could drag on for months Apple beats earnings estimates on strong iPhone and China sales Dow jumps 750 points, S&P 500 and Nasdaq notch record highs to end the best month for stocks since 2020 The AI earnings bonanza is splitting investors Trump bets Hormuz blockade will break Iran before triggering a global crisis US stocks climb as economic updates, solid earnings roll in and Big Techs buoy AI hopes Nvidia has powered one third of the Mag 7's bull market gains Results from four Big Tech companies showed combined AI spending reaching an eye-popping $725 billion this year. Microsoft tops earnings estimates, says AI business up 123% year over year Meta stock falls despite earnings beat as AI spending plans spook investors Alphabet earnings top estimates on strong Google Cloud growth The Dow and S&P 500 slipped as oil surged, with Big Tech earnings on deck Powell will stay on as governor, says he has no choice amid legal attacks on Fed Powell holds what is expected to be his final press conference as chair after the Fed keeps rates steady Fed holds interest rates steady with no end to Iran war in sight Elon Musk testified again in the OpenAI trial, describing his behavior at the company and its nonprofit 'halo' A Senate committee confirmed Kevin Warsh, sending his nomination to be chairman of the Fed to the full Senate Stocks slipped at the open as investors awaited a Fed decision and Big Tech earnings The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq dropped as chip stocks sank and oil rose S&P 500 and Nasdaq sink, Dow rises as OpenAI-linked stocks falter and UAE exits OPEC The United Arab Emirates will leave OPEC+ effective May 1 The only number that matters for 'Magnificent 7' earnings this week The S&P 500 and Nasdaq notched fresh records, while oil edged higher as markets weighed Iran peace odds Gasoline prices are expected to turn higher as oil holds above $100 per barrel amid uncertainty over the US-Iran war US stocks open mixed as markets brace for a big week of Big Tech earnings. The rapid run-up in chip stocks has reignited the AI trade as the S&P 500 and Nasdaq sit at record highs. Americans are feeling less confident about their retirement savings. Here are some of the best ways to get started early. (Bloomberg) -- The Trump administration is considering an executive order to create a working group on artificial intelligence, according to the New York Times, among a series of steps to boost oversight of the emerging technology. Most Read from Bloomberg China’s Unprecedented Defiance of US Sanctions Triggers Showdown US and Iran Trade Fire in Gulf, Jolting Four-Week-Old Truce Former NYC Mayor Giuliani in Critical Condition, Trump Says US Has Opened a Passage Through Hormuz, Central Command Says Beijing Tells China Firms to Ignore US Sanctions on Refiners One proposal would include a government review process for new models, the Times reported, citing US officials and people briefed on the talks. White House officials told executives from Anthropic PBC, Alphabet Inc.’s Google and OpenAI about some of the plans under consideration during meetings last week, the newspaper said. Any announcement would come directly from the president, according to a White House official who discussed the matter on condition of anonymity to provide insight into policymaking. The official cast any discussion about potential executive orders as speculation. Requiring a formal review of new models would mark a shift in President Donald Trump’s approach to AI, a technology he has championed with efforts to help boost construction of data centers and to provide them with power. It’s unclear from the Times report how such reviews would work and which government agencies would carry them out. The Times said the approach could resemble one followed in the UK via the British AI Security Institute, which researches and makes recommendations on safe uses of leading models. In the US, a number of AI labs already test cutting-edge models on a voluntary basis before release with the federal Center for AI Standards and Innovation. Trump administration efforts to shape AI policy have accelerated since Anthropic announced last month that its breakthrough Mythos model has a knack for finding network weaknesses and could pose a global cybersecurity risk. The company has limited Mythos access for now to a handful of financial and tech companies to vet their systems, and US officials are working to make the model more widely available to federal agencies for testing. At the same time, the Pentagon is locked in a bitter dispute with Anthropic over the company’s insistence on extra guardrails for military use of its technology. After contract talks broke down in February, the Defense Department declared the company a threat to the supply-chain and outlined a six-month period to stop using Anthropic’s Claude product, until early this year the only AI tools cleared for use on classified networks. White House Chief of Staff Susie Wiles and other administration officials met on April 17 with Anthropic Chief Executive Officer Dario Amodei, where topics discussed included Mythos. US officials are also preparing a memo for national security agencies’ adoption of AI that encourages their use of multiple vendors to minimize supply-chain vulnerabilities and requires contractors who work with the Pentagon to abide by the military’s chain of command. --With assistance from Michelle Jamrisko. (Updates with additional context starting in fourth paragraph.) Most Read from Bloomberg Businessweek America’s Go-To Autism Therapy Is Also the Most Controversial Whatnot Has Americans Hooked on Livestream Shopping The Risky Pivot Inside Australia’s Pension System It’s Boating Season, But Only If You Can Afford Fuel Running America’s Second-Busiest Airport in Turbulent Times ©2026 Bloomberg L.P. Weʼre unable to load stories right now. Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Sign in to access your portfolio