Title: The Space War is Heating Up: Amazon Just Bought a Low-Earth Orbit Satellite Company. Could it Challenge SpaceX's Starlink?
Date: 2026-04-14 19:16
URL: https://www.fool.com/investing/2026/04/14/the-space-war-is-heating-up-amazon-just-bought-a-l/?.tsrc=rss

Amazon's acquisition of Globalstar will help bolster its network of low-Earth orbit satellites, which will be able to provide phone and data service in areas where traditional internet service is harder to come by. The upcoming SpaceX initial public offering is expected to be enormous, potentially valuing the company at $2 trillion. Founded by Elon Musk, SpaceX is viewed as a pioneer of the space economy. But that doesn't mean it won't have competition.Amazon(AMZN+3.83%)just made a splash, announcing today that it will acquireGlobalstarfor over $11.5 billion, valuing the company at about $90 per share. As of this writing, Globalstar shares had surged nearly 10% but were still trading around $80 per share. The deal will still require approval from the U.S. Federal Communications Commission (FCC), although Amazon hopes to close the acquisition in 2027. Image source: Getty Images. Globalstar operates 24 low-Earth orbit satellites to provide phone and data services in areas underserved by traditional wireless and cable networks. The company also holds spectrum licenses, which grant it the authority to use certain radio frequencies for wireless communication, such as television and radio. Our experts' top-rated cash back card just got even better. For a limited time, earn a $250 bonus after spending just $500 in the first 3 months. Plus, earn unlimited cash back and pay 0% intro APR until well into 2027. Don't wait — this offer ends soon. Globalstar recently partnered withAppleto enable users to send distressed messages and connect with emergency providers even if there is no cell service. Per the deal, Amazon will acquire all of Globalstar's satellite operations, infrastructure, and assets, as well as some of its spectrum licenses. The bigger plan is to run the Globalstar fleet of satellites alongside Amazon's existing fleet, called Leo. One little-known company, called an "Indispensable Monopoly" owns the technology Nvidia, AMD, and Intel cannot function without. And it is still just a fraction of Nvidia’s size. We just released a brand-new report with the full story and the company’s name. Can Amazon challenge SpaceX? So far, Amazon's Leo network has over 200 satellites inspace. However, the FCC had set a deadline for Amazon to deploy 1,600 satellites by July of this year. Amazon has asked for an extension, requesting the deadline to be pushed out by two years to July 2028. Amazon ultimately plans to have 3,236 low-Earth satellites and integrate Leo with Amazon Web Services, so clients can move data between the two networks for storage, analytics, andartificial intelligencepurposes. Amazon hopes to launch Leo later this year. CEO Andy Jassy recently said that it already has commitments from customers, such asDelta, to begin using Leo for Wi-Fi on hundreds of its planes starting in 2028. Still, Amazon remains very far behind Starlink, which has close to 10,000 satellites up and running in space, with plans to eventually have 42,000 satellites one day. Starlink also has 9 million users. Given this and the fact that Amazon seems to be running behind schedule, I don't see Leo as a real challenge to Starlink yet. However, I think it raises an interesting point for potential future SpaceX investors: there is likely to be significant competition. That's something to consider, given the massive valuation that SpaceX is expected to debut at when it goes public. Nvidia’s CEO just revealed that one breakthrough could create more millionaires in the next five years than the internet did in two decades. Amazon’s Jeff Bezos says it is “hard to overstate the impact.” And Cathie Wood projects AI could be an $80 trillion opportunity by 2030. That is theequivalent of 18 Nvidias, 29 Microsofts, or 35 Amazons. But here’s what most investors miss: almost all that growth runs through a single choke point. One little-known company, called an “Indispensable Monopoly,” provides the critical technology Nvidia, AMD, and Intel cannot function without. And it is still just a fraction of Nvidia’s size. We just released a brand-new report with the full story and the company’s name. Continue › Bram Berkowitzhas no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Amazon and Apple and is short shares of Apple. The Motley Fool recommends Delta Air Lines. The Motley Fool has adisclosure policy. This tech could reach $80 trillion. Imagine a technology worth over55 Metas. What in the world could be worth 55 Metas? The answer is a radical tech breakthrough that our experts think is transforming every walk of life. And this giant leap forward has many on Wall Street very excited. Continue ›  *Average returns of all recommendations since inception. Cost basis and return based on previous market day close. Our experts' top-rated cash back card just got even better. For a limited time, earn a $250 bonus after spending just $500 in the first 3 months. Plus, earn unlimited cash back and pay 0% intro APR until well into 2027. Don't wait — this offer ends soon. Invest better with The Motley Fool. Get stock recommendations, portfolio guidance, and more from The Motley Fool's premium services. Making the world smarter, happier, and richer. ©1995-2026The Motley Fool. All rights reserved. Market data powered byXigniteandPolygon.io. About The Motley Fool Our Services Around the Globe Free Tools Affiliates & Friends