Title: Will the Iran War Cause a Recession? Here's What It Would Take, According to Wall Street
Date: 2026-04-14 19:03
URL: https://www.fool.com/investing/2026/04/14/will-the-iran-war-cause-a-recession-heres-what-it/?.tsrc=rss

The Iran war is expected to slow global economic growth, but a recession seems unlikely. Investors are breathing a sigh of relief. A week after President Trump pledged to annihilate Iran if it didn't open the Strait of Hormuz, stocks are back near all-time highs. TheS&P 500(^GSPC+1.18%)and other major indexes have surged over the last week, following a ceasefire agreement and signs that President Trump is looking for an off-ramp in the conflict, even as he just announced a blockade of the Strait of Hormuz. Oil prices have come down modestly, but are still elevated, and the Iran situation remains volatile as traffic through the Strait of Hormuz, the gateway for about a quarter of the world's oil, remains mostly blocked. The threat of arecessionhas been on investors' minds as a sustained energy shock, such as the 1973 Arab oil embargo, can lead to an economic crisis. Elevated oil prices don't just lift prices at the pump, after all, but on a wide range of retail goods as shipping costs rise, and transportation prices, including for air travel, go up as well. Image source: Getty Images. Recessions are never easy to predict, and economists tend to have a diverse range of forecasts on them. Our experts' top-rated cash back card just got even better. For a limited time, earn a $250 bonus after spending just $500 in the first 3 months. Plus, earn unlimited cash back and pay 0% intro APR until well into 2027. Don't wait — this offer ends soon. This morning, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) cut its forecast for the year due to higher energy prices from the war in Iran. It's now calling for 3.1% global GDP growth, down from an earlier forecast of 3.3% and 3.5% growth in 2025, which assumes a short-lived war in Iran. In its "adverse scenario," which it believes is becoming more likely, growth would slow to 2.5%, and its worst-case forecast, which is modeled on oil averaging $110 a barrel in $125 in 2027, would push the economy toward a global recession. Meanwhile, a monthly survey from theBank of Americashowed economists are the most bearish they've been since June 2025, but most respondents did not foresee a recession, with 70% calling it unlikely. When our analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all,Stock Advisor’stotal average return is975%*— a market-crushing outperformance compared to193%for the S&P 500. They just revealed what they believe are the10 best stocksfor investors to buy right now,available when you joinStock Advisor. *Stock Advisor returns as of April 14, 2026. Finally, Citadel's Ken Griffin weighed on the matter, saying that if the Strait of Hormuz were closed six to 12 months, it would cause a recession. The risk of recession isn't exactly binary. Higher oil prices could lead to slowing growth, which would weigh on stocks, but a recession is thereal riskhere, and the effects of an extended energy shock would hit some regions, like Asia, especially hard. So overall, the latest update on the recession forecast is good news for investors. While economists are dialing down their expectations for GDP growth, the risk of recession seems to be less than investors had estimated at the S&P 500's nadir last week.     Before you buy shares in theS&P 500 Index, consider this: The Motley FoolStock Advisoranalyst team just identified what they believe are the10 best stocksfor investors to buy now… and theS&P 500 Indexwasn’t one of them. The 10 stocks that made the cut could produce monster returns in the coming years. Consider whenNetflixmade this list on December 17, 2004... if you invested $1,000 at the time of our recommendation,you’d have $556,335!*Or whenNvidiamade this list on April 15, 2005... if you invested $1,000 at the time of our recommendation,you’d have $1,160,572!* Now, it’s worth notingStock Advisor’s total average return is975% — a market-crushing outperformance compared to193%for the S&P 500. Don't miss the latest top 10 list, available withStock Advisor, and join an investing community built by individual investors for individual investors. See the 10 stocks › *Stock Advisor returns as of April 14, 2026.  Jeremy Bowmanhas no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has adisclosure policy. This tech could reach $80 trillion. Imagine a technology worth over18 Nvidias. What in the world could be worth 18 Nvidias? The answer is a radical tech breakthrough that our experts think is transforming every walk of life. And this giant leap forward has many on Wall Street very excited. Continue ›  *Average returns of all recommendations since inception. Cost basis and return based on previous market day close. Our experts' top-rated cash back card just got even better. For a limited time, earn a $250 bonus after spending just $500 in the first 3 months. Plus, earn unlimited cash back and pay 0% intro APR until well into 2027. Don't wait — this offer ends soon. Invest better with The Motley Fool. Get stock recommendations, portfolio guidance, and more from The Motley Fool's premium services. Making the world smarter, happier, and richer. ©1995-2026The Motley Fool. All rights reserved. Market data powered byXigniteandPolygon.io. About The Motley Fool Our Services Around the Globe Free Tools Affiliates & Friends