Title: AI Is Creating a Power Crisis. This Fuel Cell Stock Just Surged More Than 20% and Could Have More Room to Run.
Date: 2026-04-14 19:05
URL: https://www.fool.com/investing/2026/04/14/ai-is-creating-a-power-crisis-this-fuel-cell-stock/?.tsrc=rss

Bloom Energy's stock is surging. AI has massive power needs. Electricity demand by data centers in the U.S. skyrocketed 22% last year to 61.8 gigawatts (GW). That's enough to power nearly 55 million homes for a year. According to a projection byS&P Global's 451 Research, the annual power needs of U.S. data centers could hit 134.4 GW by 2030. The surge in power demand is driving AI data center developers to secure power supplies. One company they're turning to isBloom Energy(BE+23.98%). Thefuel cell stockwas up more than 20% at one point today after expanding its partnership withOracle(ORCL+4.74%). It could have a lot more room to run. Image source: The Motley Fool. Bloom Energy is expanding its partnership withOracleto support the rapid build-out of AI and cloud computing infrastructure. Oracle now intends to deploy 2.8 GW of Bloom Energy's fuel cell systems under a master services agreement. That's up from 1.2 GW under the initial agreement, which Bloom is in the process of deploying. These fuel cells will supply Oracle data centers with the high-density power needed to support AI workloads. Deployment speed is a key competitive advantage of Bloom Energy's fuel cell systems. The company can deploy its modular fuel cell systems much faster than traditional power solutions, which often experience permitting or grid interconnection delays. Last year, Bloom delivered a fully operational fuel cell system to Oracle in only 55 days, more than a month ahead of the 90-day deployment schedule. This rapid deployment is enabling Oracle to accelerate the build-out of AI infrastructure. Our experts' top-rated cash back card just got even better. For a limited time, earn a $250 bonus after spending just $500 in the first 3 months. Plus, earn unlimited cash back and pay 0% intro APR until well into 2027. Don't wait — this offer ends soon. Oracle is one of the many companies turning to Bloom Energy for its energy needs. Last October, Bloom Energy formed a $5 billion strategic AI partnership withBrookfield Corporation(BN+4.26%). Bloom became Brookfield's preferred on-site power provider for AI factories (specialized AI data centers). The global investment firm plans to invest up to $5 billion in deploying Bloom's advanced fuel cell technology in its cutting-edge data centers. This investment is part of the $100 billion that Brookfield plans to deploy into AI infrastructure in the coming years. Bloom Energy also expanded its long-standing partnership with leadingdata center REITEquinixlast year. It's deploying over 100 megawatts of capacity across 19 Equinix data centers. When our analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all,Stock Advisor’stotal average return is975%*— a market-crushing outperformance compared to193%for the S&P 500. They just revealed what they believe are the10 best stocksfor investors to buy right now,available when you joinStock Advisor. *Stock Advisor returns as of April 14, 2026. Data center developers are realizing that they need to bring their own power solutions to their developments to avoid delays. That's driving industry leaders like Oracle and Brookfield to partner with Bloom Energy, which can rapidly deploy on-site power solutions. With more than 100 GW of data center development expected in the U.S. alone by 2035, Bloom Energy has a very long growth runway.     Before you buy stock inBloom Energy, consider this: The Motley FoolStock Advisoranalyst team just identified what they believe are the10 best stocksfor investors to buy now… andBloom Energywasn’t one of them. The 10 stocks that made the cut could produce monster returns in the coming years. Consider whenNetflixmade this list on December 17, 2004... if you invested $1,000 at the time of our recommendation,you’d have $556,335!*Or whenNvidiamade this list on April 15, 2005... if you invested $1,000 at the time of our recommendation,you’d have $1,160,572!* Now, it’s worth notingStock Advisor’s total average return is975% — a market-crushing outperformance compared to193%for the S&P 500. Don't miss the latest top 10 list, available withStock Advisor, and join an investing community built by individual investors for individual investors. See the 10 stocks › *Stock Advisor returns as of April 14, 2026.  Matt DiLallohas positions in Brookfield Corporation and Equinix and has the following options: short July 2026 $40 puts on Brookfield Corporation. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Bloom Energy, Brookfield, Brookfield Corporation, Equinix, Oracle, and S&P Global. The Motley Fool has adisclosure policy. This tech could reach $80 trillion. Imagine a technology worth over18 Nvidias. What in the world could be worth 18 Nvidias? The answer is a radical tech breakthrough that our experts think is transforming every walk of life. And this giant leap forward has many on Wall Street very excited. Continue ›  *Average returns of all recommendations since inception. Cost basis and return based on previous market day close. Our experts' top-rated cash back card just got even better. For a limited time, earn a $250 bonus after spending just $500 in the first 3 months. Plus, earn unlimited cash back and pay 0% intro APR until well into 2027. Don't wait — this offer ends soon. Invest better with The Motley Fool. Get stock recommendations, portfolio guidance, and more from The Motley Fool's premium services. Making the world smarter, happier, and richer. ©1995-2026The Motley Fool. All rights reserved. Market data powered byXigniteandPolygon.io. About The Motley Fool Our Services Around the Globe Free Tools Affiliates & Friends