Title: Select Medical Q1 Earnings Miss Estimates on Higher Expenses
Date: 2026-05-04 16:39
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/sectors/healthcare/articles/select-medical-q1-earnings-miss-163900799.html?.tsrc=rss

Oops, something went wrong Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Spirit Airlines is gone. Here are the low-cost airlines filling the gap. Court documents show Musk warned OpenAI execs they would become 'the most hated men in America' days before the trial began Palantir beats earnings expectations, with revenue rising 85% on booming US business Dow, S&P 500, Nasdaq drop, oil surges as Middle East attacks escalate GameStop’s CEO dodged questions on funding the deal, leaving investors uneasy Dow sags while S&P 500, Nasdaq waver as Hormuz tensions rise Why trade deficits under Trump are so difficult to understand (and so easy to spin) Buying record highs looks riskier in the Nasdaq and Russell 2000 than in the broader market Would a gas tax holiday lower prices? What drivers should know. Wall Street sees more market gains as strong earnings fuel the AI trade The April jobs report and more major first quarter results await investors this week. April added roughly $1.2 trillion to Alphabet’s market value, or just over 50 times Google’s IPO valuation. Toto Wolff on Mercedes F1's dominant start, the 'outstanding' Kimi Antonelli, and why vulnerability is a leader's 'superpower' The average cost of college in 2026 (and how to pay for it) Network shakeups hit Medicare Advantage, forcing retirees to pay up or find new care Jerome Powell's Fed years were an everything rally The Iran War almost upended spring homebuying, but so far the market is showing 'surprising resilience' Berkshire Hathaway's profits double as shareholders gather for the annual meeting in Omaha (Associated Press) Bankrupt carrier Spirit Airlines ceased operations Saturday, the industry's first closure linked to the Iran war. If Spirit Airlines shuts down, travel chaos could ramp up. Here's how to protect your summer travel plans. The S&P 500 and Nasdaq jumped to record highs as the AI trade fueled a tech rally The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq advanced after hitting record highs as earnings rolled in Apple's earnings beat is part of an amazing trend AI developers are snapping up Mac minis, sparking a shortage that could drag on for months Apple beats earnings estimates on strong iPhone and China sales Dow jumps 750 points, S&P 500 and Nasdaq notch record highs to end the best month for stocks since 2020 The AI earnings bonanza is splitting investors Trump bets Hormuz blockade will break Iran before triggering a global crisis US stocks climb as economic updates, solid earnings roll in and Big Techs buoy AI hopes Nvidia has powered one third of the Mag 7's bull market gains Results from four Big Tech companies showed combined AI spending reaching an eye-popping $725 billion this year. Microsoft tops earnings estimates, says AI business up 123% year over year Meta stock falls despite earnings beat as AI spending plans spook investors Alphabet earnings top estimates on strong Google Cloud growth The Dow and S&P 500 slipped as oil surged, with Big Tech earnings on deck Powell will stay on as governor, says he has no choice amid legal attacks on Fed Powell holds what is expected to be his final press conference as chair after the Fed keeps rates steady Fed holds interest rates steady with no end to Iran war in sight Elon Musk testified again in the OpenAI trial, describing his behavior at the company and its nonprofit 'halo' A Senate committee confirmed Kevin Warsh, sending his nomination to be chairman of the Fed to the full Senate Stocks slipped at the open as investors awaited a Fed decision and Big Tech earnings The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq dropped as chip stocks sank and oil rose S&P 500 and Nasdaq sink, Dow rises as OpenAI-linked stocks falter and UAE exits OPEC The United Arab Emirates will leave OPEC+ effective May 1 The only number that matters for 'Magnificent 7' earnings this week The S&P 500 and Nasdaq notched fresh records, while oil edged higher as markets weighed Iran peace odds Gasoline prices are expected to turn higher as oil holds above $100 per barrel amid uncertainty over the US-Iran war US stocks open mixed as markets brace for a big week of Big Tech earnings. The rapid run-up in chip stocks has reignited the AI trade as the S&P 500 and Nasdaq sit at record highs. Americans are feeling less confident about their retirement savings. Here are some of the best ways to get started early. Select Medical Holdings CorporationSEM reported first-quarter 2026 adjusted earnings per share (EPS) of 36 cents, which missed the Zacks Consensus Estimate by 16.3%. The bottom line declined 18.2% year over year. Net operating revenues advanced 5% year over year to $1.4 billion. The top line beat the consensus mark by 1.5%. The quarterly earnings suffered due to an elevated expense level and a decline in patient days, exerting pressure on profitability in the Critical Illness Recovery Hospital segment. However, the downside was partially offset by solid revenue growth in the Rehabilitation Hospital segment, driven by higher admissions and improved occupancy. Select Medical Holdings Corporation price-consensus-eps-surprise-chart | Select Medical Holdings Corporation Quote Total costs and expenses were $1.3 billion, which increased 6.7% year over year and came higher than our estimate by 1.4%. The year-over-year rise was due to higher costs of services, exclusive of depreciation and amortization, and general and administrative expenses. Adjusted EBITDA declined 6.5% year over year to $141.6 million but beat our estimate of $141.1 million. The segment recorded revenues of $638.8 million in the first quarter, which grew 0.3% year over year, but missed the Zacks Consensus Estimate and our estimate of $671.3 million. The unit benefited on the back of a 1% year-over-year increase in admissions and a 2.5% rise in revenue per patient day. Patient days slipped 2.2% year over year. The occupancy rate deteriorated 140 bps year over year to 72%. Adjusted EBITDA declined 15.3% year over year to $73.4 million and fell short of the consensus mark and our estimate of $88.7 million. The adjusted EBITDA margin of 11.5% deteriorated 210 bps year over year. SEM’s Rehabilitation Hospital segment remained the primary growth engine. The unit’s revenues rose 14.5% year over year to $351.9 million, which surpassed the Zacks Consensus Estimate and our estimate of $320.8 million. The favorable performance stemmed from year-over-year increases of 13% and 12.5%, respectively, in admissions and patient days. The occupancy rate was 83%, which improved 120 bps year over year in the quarter under review. Adjusted EBITDA improved 15.1% year over year to $81.1 million, which beat the consensus mark and our estimate of $69.4 million. The adjusted EBITDA margin of 23% improved 10 bps year over year. Revenues totaled $321.3 million in the segment, which rose 4.5% year over year, and beat the Zacks Consensus Estimate and our estimate of $311 million. The unit’s performance was aided by a 4.5% year-over-year increase in visits. Revenue per visit remained stable year over year. Profitability moved the other way. Adjusted EBITDA declined 9.4% year over year to $22 million and lagged the consensus mark and our estimate of $29.5 million. The adjusted EBITDA margin of 6.8% deteriorated 110 bps year over year. Select Medical exited the first quarter with cash and cash equivalents of $25.7 million, which fell 3.2% from the 2025-end level. Total assets of $6 billion increased from the 2025-end figure of $5.9 billion. Long-term debt, net of the current portion, amounted to $1.8 billion, up 1.7% from the figure as of Dec. 31, 2025. Total equity of $2.1 billion rose 3.4% from the 2025-end level. Select Medical generated net cash from operations of $37.9 million in the reported quarter, against cash used in operating activities of $3.5 million in the prior-year quarter. Select Medical bought back shares worth around $11.4 million in the first quarter of 2026. On April 29, 2026, management approved a cash dividend of 6.25 cents per share, which will be paid out on May 28 to its shareholders of record as of May 14. Management continues to expect revenues within $5.6-$5.8 billion, the mid-point of which represents a 3.6% increase from the 2025 figure. Adjusted EBITDA is still projected to be between $520 million and $540 million. EPS is still anticipated to be within $1.22-$1.32. Interest expense is projected to be at $118 million, while depreciation and amortization are estimated at $146 million. SEM currently carries a Zacks Rank #4 (Sell). You can seethe complete list of today’s Zacks #1 Rank (Strong Buy) stocks here. Several companies in the Medical space, includingMolina Healthcare Inc.MOH,UnitedHealth Group IncorporatedUNH andElevance Health, Inc.ELV, have already reported their financial results for the March quarter of 2026. Here’s how they had performed: Molina Healthcare reported first-quarter 2026 adjusted earnings per share of $2.35, which beat the Zacks Consensus Estimate of $1.57. The bottom line declined 61.3% from the year-ago period's level. Revenues amounted to $10.8 billion, which decreased 3.1% year over year. The first-quarter performance was supported by lower medical care costs, partially offset by declining premiums, membership and investment income. UnitedHealth reported first-quarter 2026 EPS of $7.23, which beat the Zacks Consensus Estimate of $6.46. The bottom line rose 0.4% year over year. Revenues rose 2% year over year to $111.7 billion. The quarterly earnings were aided by growth in commercial fee-based membership and the strength witnessed in Optum Rx. However, weakness in UnitedHealth’s Optum Health and declining risk-based membership partially offset the positives. Elevance Health reported first-quarter 2026 adjusted earnings per share of $12.58, which surpassed the Zacks Consensus Estimate by 17.8%. The bottom line rose 5.1% year over year. Operating revenues advanced 1.5% year over year to $49.5 billion. The quarterly results benefited on the back of strong growth in premiums. Segment-wise, the Carelon division posted a robust revenue surge, aided by scaling risk-based services, while Health Benefits saw increased premium yields. However, Elevance Health’s upside was partly offset by a decline in overall medical membership and an elevated expense level. Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days.Click to get this free report UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (UNH) : Free Stock Analysis Report Molina Healthcare, Inc (MOH) : Free Stock Analysis Report Select Medical Holdings Corporation (SEM) : Free Stock Analysis Report Elevance Health, Inc. (ELV) : Free Stock Analysis Report This article originally published on Zacks Investment Research (zacks.com). Zacks Investment Research Weʼre unable to load stories right now. Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Sign in to access your portfolio