Title: 1 Cash-Producing Stock Worth Investigating and 2 Facing Headwinds
Date: 2026-05-03 04:36
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/1-cash-producing-stock-worth-043655481.html?.tsrc=rss

Oops, something went wrong Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Spirit Airlines is gone. Here are the low-cost airlines filling the gap. Court documents show Musk warned OpenAI execs they would become 'the most hated men in America' days before the trial began Palantir beats earnings expectations, with revenue rising 85% on booming US business Dow, S&P 500, Nasdaq drop, oil surges as Middle East attacks escalate GameStop’s CEO dodged questions on funding the deal, leaving investors uneasy Dow sags while S&P 500, Nasdaq waver as Hormuz tensions rise Why trade deficits under Trump are so difficult to understand (and so easy to spin) Buying record highs looks riskier in the Nasdaq and Russell 2000 than in the broader market Would a gas tax holiday lower prices? What drivers should know. Wall Street sees more market gains as strong earnings fuel the AI trade The April jobs report and more major first quarter results await investors this week. April added roughly $1.2 trillion to Alphabet’s market value, or just over 50 times Google’s IPO valuation. Toto Wolff on Mercedes F1's dominant start, the 'outstanding' Kimi Antonelli, and why vulnerability is a leader's 'superpower' The average cost of college in 2026 (and how to pay for it) Network shakeups hit Medicare Advantage, forcing retirees to pay up or find new care Jerome Powell's Fed years were an everything rally The Iran War almost upended spring homebuying, but so far the market is showing 'surprising resilience' Berkshire Hathaway's profits double as shareholders gather for the annual meeting in Omaha (Associated Press) Bankrupt carrier Spirit Airlines ceased operations Saturday, the industry's first closure linked to the Iran war. If Spirit Airlines shuts down, travel chaos could ramp up. Here's how to protect your summer travel plans. The S&P 500 and Nasdaq jumped to record highs as the AI trade fueled a tech rally The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq advanced after hitting record highs as earnings rolled in Apple's earnings beat is part of an amazing trend AI developers are snapping up Mac minis, sparking a shortage that could drag on for months Apple beats earnings estimates on strong iPhone and China sales Dow jumps 750 points, S&P 500 and Nasdaq notch record highs to end the best month for stocks since 2020 The AI earnings bonanza is splitting investors Trump bets Hormuz blockade will break Iran before triggering a global crisis US stocks climb as economic updates, solid earnings roll in and Big Techs buoy AI hopes Nvidia has powered one third of the Mag 7's bull market gains Results from four Big Tech companies showed combined AI spending reaching an eye-popping $725 billion this year. Microsoft tops earnings estimates, says AI business up 123% year over year Meta stock falls despite earnings beat as AI spending plans spook investors Alphabet earnings top estimates on strong Google Cloud growth The Dow and S&P 500 slipped as oil surged, with Big Tech earnings on deck Powell will stay on as governor, says he has no choice amid legal attacks on Fed Powell holds what is expected to be his final press conference as chair after the Fed keeps rates steady Fed holds interest rates steady with no end to Iran war in sight Elon Musk testified again in the OpenAI trial, describing his behavior at the company and its nonprofit 'halo' A Senate committee confirmed Kevin Warsh, sending his nomination to be chairman of the Fed to the full Senate Stocks slipped at the open as investors awaited a Fed decision and Big Tech earnings The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq dropped as chip stocks sank and oil rose S&P 500 and Nasdaq sink, Dow rises as OpenAI-linked stocks falter and UAE exits OPEC The United Arab Emirates will leave OPEC+ effective May 1 The only number that matters for 'Magnificent 7' earnings this week The S&P 500 and Nasdaq notched fresh records, while oil edged higher as markets weighed Iran peace odds Gasoline prices are expected to turn higher as oil holds above $100 per barrel amid uncertainty over the US-Iran war US stocks open mixed as markets brace for a big week of Big Tech earnings. The rapid run-up in chip stocks has reignited the AI trade as the S&P 500 and Nasdaq sit at record highs. Americans are feeling less confident about their retirement savings. Here are some of the best ways to get started early. A company that generates cash isn’t automatically a winner. Some businesses stockpile cash but fail to reinvest wisely, limiting their ability to expand. Not all companies are created equal, and StockStory is here to surface the ones with real upside. That said, here is one cash-producing company that leverages its financial strength to beat its competitors and two best left off your watchlist. Trailing 12-Month Free Cash Flow Margin: 3.7% Recycling corporate waste to help companies be more sustainable, Quest Resource (NASDAQ:QRHC) is a provider of waste and recycling services. Why Do We Avoid QRHC? Products and services are facing significant end-market challenges during this cycle as sales have declined by 6.9% annually over the last two years Low free cash flow margin of -0.3% for the last five years gives it little breathing room, constraining its ability to self-fund growth or return capital to shareholders High net-debt-to-EBITDA ratio of 7× increases the risk of forced asset sales or dilutive financing if operational performance weakens At $1.13 per share, Quest Resource trades at 8x forward EV-to-EBITDA.Dive into our free research report to see why there are better opportunities than QRHC. Trailing 12-Month Free Cash Flow Margin: 27.6% Founded by scientists who wanted to build a company where science could thrive, Regeneron Pharmaceuticals (NASDAQ:REGN) develops and commercializes medicines for serious diseases, with key products treating eye conditions, allergic diseases, cancer, and other disorders. Why Are We Wary of REGN? Scale is a double-edged sword because it limits the company’s growth potential compared to its smaller competitors, as reflected in its below-average annual revenue increases of 6.7% for the last two years Free cash flow margin dropped by 20.5 percentage points over the last five years, implying the company became more capital intensive as competition picked up Eroding returns on capital suggest its historical profit centers are aging Regeneron’s stock price of $704 implies a valuation ratio of 14.1x forward P/E.To fully understand why you should be careful with REGN, check out our full research report (it’s free). Trailing 12-Month Free Cash Flow Margin: 4.4% With over 100 million people served across its various businesses and a workforce of more than 400,000, UnitedHealth Group (NYSE:UNH) operates a health insurance business and Optum, a healthcare services division that provides everything from pharmacy benefits to primary care. Why Do We Like UNH? Decent 11.3% annual revenue growth over the last five years beat most of its peers, showing customers find value in its products and services Enormous revenue base of $449.7 billion gives it leverage over plan holders and advantageous reimbursement terms with healthcare providers Market-beating returns on capital illustrate that management has a knack for investing in profitable ventures UnitedHealth is trading at $369.38 per share, or 19.6x forward P/E. Is now the right time to buy?See for yourself in our full research report, it’s free. WHILE YOU’RE HERE: Top 9 Market-Beating Stocks.The best stocks don't just beat the market once. They do it again. And again. Robust revenue growth, rising free cash flow, returns on capital that leave their competition in the dust. The market has already rewarded these businesses. But our AI platform says the party isn't over. Find out which 9 stocks made the cut this week - FREE.Get Our Top 9 Market-Beating Stocks for Free HERE. Stocks that made our list in 2020 include now familiar names such as Nvidia (+1,326% between June 2020 and June 2025) as well as under-the-radar businesses like the once-small-cap company Comfort Systems (+782% five-year return).Find your next big winner with StockStory today. Weʼre unable to load stories right now. Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Sign in to access your portfolio