Title: Acadia Healthcare Q1 Earnings Beat Estimates on Rising Patient Days
Date: 2026-05-04 16:52
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/sectors/healthcare/articles/acadia-healthcare-q1-earnings-beat-165200593.html?.tsrc=rss

Oops, something went wrong Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Spirit Airlines is gone. Here are the low-cost airlines filling the gap. Court documents show Musk warned OpenAI execs they would become 'the most hated men in America' days before the trial began Palantir beats earnings expectations, with revenue rising 85% on booming US business Dow, S&P 500, Nasdaq drop, oil surges as Middle East attacks escalate GameStop’s CEO dodged questions on funding the deal, leaving investors uneasy Dow sags while S&P 500, Nasdaq waver as Hormuz tensions rise Why trade deficits under Trump are so difficult to understand (and so easy to spin) Buying record highs looks riskier in the Nasdaq and Russell 2000 than in the broader market Would a gas tax holiday lower prices? What drivers should know. Wall Street sees more market gains as strong earnings fuel the AI trade The April jobs report and more major first quarter results await investors this week. April added roughly $1.2 trillion to Alphabet’s market value, or just over 50 times Google’s IPO valuation. Toto Wolff on Mercedes F1's dominant start, the 'outstanding' Kimi Antonelli, and why vulnerability is a leader's 'superpower' The average cost of college in 2026 (and how to pay for it) Network shakeups hit Medicare Advantage, forcing retirees to pay up or find new care Jerome Powell's Fed years were an everything rally The Iran War almost upended spring homebuying, but so far the market is showing 'surprising resilience' Berkshire Hathaway's profits double as shareholders gather for the annual meeting in Omaha (Associated Press) Bankrupt carrier Spirit Airlines ceased operations Saturday, the industry's first closure linked to the Iran war. If Spirit Airlines shuts down, travel chaos could ramp up. Here's how to protect your summer travel plans. The S&P 500 and Nasdaq jumped to record highs as the AI trade fueled a tech rally The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq advanced after hitting record highs as earnings rolled in Apple's earnings beat is part of an amazing trend AI developers are snapping up Mac minis, sparking a shortage that could drag on for months Apple beats earnings estimates on strong iPhone and China sales Dow jumps 750 points, S&P 500 and Nasdaq notch record highs to end the best month for stocks since 2020 The AI earnings bonanza is splitting investors Trump bets Hormuz blockade will break Iran before triggering a global crisis US stocks climb as economic updates, solid earnings roll in and Big Techs buoy AI hopes Nvidia has powered one third of the Mag 7's bull market gains Results from four Big Tech companies showed combined AI spending reaching an eye-popping $725 billion this year. Microsoft tops earnings estimates, says AI business up 123% year over year Meta stock falls despite earnings beat as AI spending plans spook investors Alphabet earnings top estimates on strong Google Cloud growth The Dow and S&P 500 slipped as oil surged, with Big Tech earnings on deck Powell will stay on as governor, says he has no choice amid legal attacks on Fed Powell holds what is expected to be his final press conference as chair after the Fed keeps rates steady Fed holds interest rates steady with no end to Iran war in sight Elon Musk testified again in the OpenAI trial, describing his behavior at the company and its nonprofit 'halo' A Senate committee confirmed Kevin Warsh, sending his nomination to be chairman of the Fed to the full Senate Stocks slipped at the open as investors awaited a Fed decision and Big Tech earnings The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq dropped as chip stocks sank and oil rose S&P 500 and Nasdaq sink, Dow rises as OpenAI-linked stocks falter and UAE exits OPEC The United Arab Emirates will leave OPEC+ effective May 1 The only number that matters for 'Magnificent 7' earnings this week The S&P 500 and Nasdaq notched fresh records, while oil edged higher as markets weighed Iran peace odds Gasoline prices are expected to turn higher as oil holds above $100 per barrel amid uncertainty over the US-Iran war US stocks open mixed as markets brace for a big week of Big Tech earnings. The rapid run-up in chip stocks has reignited the AI trade as the S&P 500 and Nasdaq sit at record highs. Americans are feeling less confident about their retirement savings. Here are some of the best ways to get started early. Acadia Healthcare Company, Inc.ACHC reported adjusted first-quarter earnings of 37 cents per share, which beat the Zacks Consensus Estimate of 28 cents. However, the bottom line declined 7.5% year over year. Total revenues increased 7.6% year over year to $828.8 million. The top line beat the consensus mark of $824 million. The better-than-expected quarterly results were driven by increased patient days and revenues per patient day, and higher admissions, which were partially offset by lower average length of stay and higher expenses. Acadia Healthcare Company, Inc. price-consensus-eps-surprise-chart | Acadia Healthcare Company, Inc. Quote ACHC’s top line benefited most from its Acute Inpatient Psychiatric Facilities business, where revenues increased 14% year over year to $470.7 million and beat the Zacks Consensus Estimate by 6.4%. The metric benefited from higher volumes, aided by expanded capacity from both new construction and additions at existing facilities. Specialty Treatment Facilities’ revenues declined 6.5% from the prior-year period to $128.1 million. Comprehensive Treatment Facilities’ revenues rose 2.5% year over year to $140.4 million, while Residential Treatment Facilities’ revenues increased 6.3% to $89.6 million. Same-facility revenues of $813.4 million rose 7.3% year over year and beat the Zacks Consensus Estimate by 2%. The year-over-year improvement was driven by a 1.6% increase in patient days. Admissions grew 6.5% year over year. The average length of stay declined 4.6% year over year and missed the consensus estimate by 5.5%. Revenue per patient day increased 5.6% year over year. In the overall facility, patient days improved 1.5% year over year, while admissions grew 7.8%. Revenue per patient day increased 5.9% year over year. The average length of stay declined 5.8% year over year. Total expenses of $817.8 million rose from $757 million in the prior-year period due to higher salaries, wages and benefits, other operating expenses, supply costs and professional fees. Total adjusted EBITDA rose 7.5% year over year to $144.2 million. During the quarter, the company added 82 newly licensed beds, including 42 beds at existing facilities and 40 beds from newly constructed facilities, including a joint venture with Tufts Medicine. Acadia Healthcare exited the first quarter with cash and cash equivalents of $158.5 million, which increased from $133.2 million at the 2025-end level. It had a leftover capacity of $564.8 million under its $1 billion revolving credit facility at the first-quarter end. Total assets of $5.5 billion increased 0.3% from the figure at the end of 2025. Long-term debt amounted to $2.5 billion, which rose from $0.9 billion as of Dec. 31, 2025. The current portion of long-term debt was $32.5 million. Total equity of $2 billion increased from the 2025-end level of $1.9 billion. Net cash provided by operations totaled $61.5 million in the first quarter of 2026 compared with $11.5 million in the prior-year comparable period. The company did not buy back shares in the first quarter of 2026. For the second quarter of 2026, revenues are projected to be between $835 million and $850 million. Adjusted earnings per share (EPS) are predicted to be between 30 cents and 40 cents. Adjusted EBITDA is estimated to be in the range of $142-$152 million. Revenues are still projected to be in the range of $3.37 to $3.45 billion. Adjusted EBITDA is now estimated to be in the range of $580 to $615 million, up from the previous guidance range of $575 to $610 million. Adjusted EPS are now predicted to be between $1.35 and $1.60, up from the previous guidance range of $1.30 and $1.55. Operating cash flows are now forecasted in the range of $285 to $325 million. Capital expenditures are expected to be in the range of $255-$280 million. Management earlier estimated bed additions between 400 and 600 in 2026. ACHC currently carries a Zacks Rank #3 (Hold). You can seethe complete list of today’s Zacks #1 Rank (Strong Buy) stocks here. Several companies in the Medical space, includingMolina Healthcare Inc.MOH,UnitedHealth Group IncorporatedUNH andElevance Health, Inc.ELV, have already reported their financial results for the March quarter of 2026. Here’s how they had performed: Molina Healthcare reported first-quarter 2026 adjusted earnings per share of $2.35, which beat the Zacks Consensus Estimate of $1.57. The bottom line declined 61.3% from the year-ago period's level. Revenues amounted to $10.8 billion, which decreased 3.1% year over year. The first-quarter performance was supported by lower medical care costs, partially offset by declining premiums, membership and investment income. UnitedHealth reported first-quarter 2026 EPS of $7.23, which beat the Zacks Consensus Estimate of $6.46. The bottom line rose 0.4% year over year. Revenues rose 2% year over year to $111.7 billion. The quarterly earnings were aided by growth in commercial fee-based membership and the strength witnessed in Optum Rx. However, weakness in UnitedHealth’s Optum Health and declining risk-based membership partially offset the positives. Elevance Health reported first-quarter 2026 adjusted earnings per share of $12.58, which surpassed the Zacks Consensus Estimate by 17.8%. The bottom line rose 5.1% year over year. Operating revenues advanced 1.5% year over year to $49.5 billion. The quarterly results benefited on the back of strong growth in premiums. Segment-wise, the Carelon division posted a robust revenue surge, aided by scaling risk-based services, while Health Benefits saw increased premium yields. However, Elevance Health’s upside was partly offset by a decline in overall medical membership and an elevated expense level. Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days.Click to get this free report UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (UNH) : Free Stock Analysis Report Molina Healthcare, Inc (MOH) : Free Stock Analysis Report Acadia Healthcare Company, Inc. (ACHC) : Free Stock Analysis Report Elevance Health, Inc. (ELV) : Free Stock Analysis Report This article originally published on Zacks Investment Research (zacks.com). Zacks Investment Research Weʼre unable to load stories right now. Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Sign in to access your portfolio