Title: Morgan Stanley Sees Tech Earnings Eclipsing Iran War for Stocks
Date: 2026-05-04 09:04
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/news/morgan-stanley-sees-tech-earnings-090410744.html?.tsrc=rss

Oops, something went wrong Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Spirit Airlines is gone. Here are the low-cost airlines filling the gap. Court documents show Musk warned OpenAI execs they would become 'the most hated men in America' days before the trial began Palantir beats earnings expectations, with revenue rising 85% on booming US business Dow, S&P 500, Nasdaq drop, oil surges as Middle East attacks escalate GameStop’s CEO dodged questions on funding the deal, leaving investors uneasy Dow sags while S&P 500, Nasdaq waver as Hormuz tensions rise Why trade deficits under Trump are so difficult to understand (and so easy to spin) Buying record highs looks riskier in the Nasdaq and Russell 2000 than in the broader market Would a gas tax holiday lower prices? What drivers should know. Wall Street sees more market gains as strong earnings fuel the AI trade The April jobs report and more major first quarter results await investors this week. April added roughly $1.2 trillion to Alphabet’s market value, or just over 50 times Google’s IPO valuation. Toto Wolff on Mercedes F1's dominant start, the 'outstanding' Kimi Antonelli, and why vulnerability is a leader's 'superpower' The average cost of college in 2026 (and how to pay for it) Network shakeups hit Medicare Advantage, forcing retirees to pay up or find new care Jerome Powell's Fed years were an everything rally The Iran War almost upended spring homebuying, but so far the market is showing 'surprising resilience' Berkshire Hathaway's profits double as shareholders gather for the annual meeting in Omaha (Associated Press) Bankrupt carrier Spirit Airlines ceased operations Saturday, the industry's first closure linked to the Iran war. If Spirit Airlines shuts down, travel chaos could ramp up. Here's how to protect your summer travel plans. The S&P 500 and Nasdaq jumped to record highs as the AI trade fueled a tech rally The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq advanced after hitting record highs as earnings rolled in Apple's earnings beat is part of an amazing trend AI developers are snapping up Mac minis, sparking a shortage that could drag on for months Apple beats earnings estimates on strong iPhone and China sales Dow jumps 750 points, S&P 500 and Nasdaq notch record highs to end the best month for stocks since 2020 The AI earnings bonanza is splitting investors Trump bets Hormuz blockade will break Iran before triggering a global crisis US stocks climb as economic updates, solid earnings roll in and Big Techs buoy AI hopes Nvidia has powered one third of the Mag 7's bull market gains Results from four Big Tech companies showed combined AI spending reaching an eye-popping $725 billion this year. Microsoft tops earnings estimates, says AI business up 123% year over year Meta stock falls despite earnings beat as AI spending plans spook investors Alphabet earnings top estimates on strong Google Cloud growth The Dow and S&P 500 slipped as oil surged, with Big Tech earnings on deck Powell will stay on as governor, says he has no choice amid legal attacks on Fed Powell holds what is expected to be his final press conference as chair after the Fed keeps rates steady Fed holds interest rates steady with no end to Iran war in sight Elon Musk testified again in the OpenAI trial, describing his behavior at the company and its nonprofit 'halo' A Senate committee confirmed Kevin Warsh, sending his nomination to be chairman of the Fed to the full Senate Stocks slipped at the open as investors awaited a Fed decision and Big Tech earnings The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq dropped as chip stocks sank and oil rose S&P 500 and Nasdaq sink, Dow rises as OpenAI-linked stocks falter and UAE exits OPEC The United Arab Emirates will leave OPEC+ effective May 1 The only number that matters for 'Magnificent 7' earnings this week The S&P 500 and Nasdaq notched fresh records, while oil edged higher as markets weighed Iran peace odds Gasoline prices are expected to turn higher as oil holds above $100 per barrel amid uncertainty over the US-Iran war US stocks open mixed as markets brace for a big week of Big Tech earnings. The rapid run-up in chip stocks has reignited the AI trade as the S&P 500 and Nasdaq sit at record highs. Americans are feeling less confident about their retirement savings. Here are some of the best ways to get started early. (Bloomberg) -- Strong US corporate earnings led by a buoyant tech sector are overshadowing fears that the Middle East conflict could weigh on stocks, according to strategists at Morgan Stanley. Most Read from Bloomberg Beijing Tells China Firms to Ignore US Sanctions on Refiners Former NYC Mayor Giuliani in Critical Condition, Trump Says Supertanker Appears to Have Crossed the Strait of Hormuz World’s Largest Container Carrier Plans Route Avoiding Hormuz China’s Unprecedented Defiance of US Sanctions Triggers Showdown Earnings revisions for the S&P 500 have moved higher across multiple time horizons over the past month, the team led by Michael Wilson wrote in a note. Second-quarter estimates are up 2% and forecasts for calendar 2026 and the next 12 months have risen 3% and 4%, respectively. The first-quarter reporting season has delivered robust results, with the median S&P 500 company posting an earnings-per-share upside surprise of 6%. That’s the strongest in four years, the strategists said. Hyperscalers and semiconductor companies have been been “major contributors to this durability,” Wilson said, as they benefited from accelerating cloud demand and solid order backlogs. “The strength is not limited to these cohorts,” however, as upward revisions have also picked up across financials, industrials and consumer cyclicals, signaling a more durable expansion in profit growth. The impact of the Iran war is expected to remain uneven rather than systemic, with cost pressures affecting companies on a case-by-case basis rather than weighing on entire sectors, Wilson said. Energy companies, meanwhile, are a tailwind for overall earnings as higher oil prices boost their profit growth. Despite resilient earnings and US stocks at all-time highs, concentration risks remain a headache for investors, with seven stocks having generated around 80% of S&P 500 returns since the start of the year. Still, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. strategists led by Ben Snider said the spending boom on AI infrastructure is showing no signs of slowing, with analysts having further ramped up their estimates for hyperscaler spending since the start of earnings season. “The surge in spending estimates is driving a similar rise in earnings estimates for AI infrastructure companies, helping lift the earnings outlook for the broad market and skewing risks to our S&P 500 EPS estimates to the upside,” Snider and his colleagues wrote. Most Read from Bloomberg Businessweek America’s Go-To Autism Therapy Is Also the Most Controversial It’s Boating Season, But Only If You Can Afford Fuel Ready or Not, the AI Phones Are Coming Running America’s Second-Busiest Airport in Turbulent Times The NBA Draft Is Bad for Business ©2026 Bloomberg L.P. Weʼre unable to load stories right now. Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Sign in to access your portfolio