Title: OpenAI Finalizes $10 Billion Joint Venture With PE Firms to Deploy AI
Date: 2026-05-04 15:03
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/sectors/technology/articles/openai-finalizes-10-billion-joint-123100557.html?.tsrc=rss

Oops, something went wrong Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Spirit Airlines is gone. Here are the low-cost airlines filling the gap. Court documents show Musk warned OpenAI execs they would become 'the most hated men in America' days before the trial began Palantir beats earnings expectations, with revenue rising 85% on booming US business Dow, S&P 500, Nasdaq drop, oil surges as Middle East attacks escalate GameStop’s CEO dodged questions on funding the deal, leaving investors uneasy Dow sags while S&P 500, Nasdaq waver as Hormuz tensions rise Why trade deficits under Trump are so difficult to understand (and so easy to spin) Buying record highs looks riskier in the Nasdaq and Russell 2000 than in the broader market Would a gas tax holiday lower prices? What drivers should know. Wall Street sees more market gains as strong earnings fuel the AI trade The April jobs report and more major first quarter results await investors this week. April added roughly $1.2 trillion to Alphabet’s market value, or just over 50 times Google’s IPO valuation. Toto Wolff on Mercedes F1's dominant start, the 'outstanding' Kimi Antonelli, and why vulnerability is a leader's 'superpower' The average cost of college in 2026 (and how to pay for it) Network shakeups hit Medicare Advantage, forcing retirees to pay up or find new care Jerome Powell's Fed years were an everything rally The Iran War almost upended spring homebuying, but so far the market is showing 'surprising resilience' Berkshire Hathaway's profits double as shareholders gather for the annual meeting in Omaha (Associated Press) Bankrupt carrier Spirit Airlines ceased operations Saturday, the industry's first closure linked to the Iran war. If Spirit Airlines shuts down, travel chaos could ramp up. Here's how to protect your summer travel plans. The S&P 500 and Nasdaq jumped to record highs as the AI trade fueled a tech rally The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq advanced after hitting record highs as earnings rolled in Apple's earnings beat is part of an amazing trend AI developers are snapping up Mac minis, sparking a shortage that could drag on for months Apple beats earnings estimates on strong iPhone and China sales Dow jumps 750 points, S&P 500 and Nasdaq notch record highs to end the best month for stocks since 2020 The AI earnings bonanza is splitting investors Trump bets Hormuz blockade will break Iran before triggering a global crisis US stocks climb as economic updates, solid earnings roll in and Big Techs buoy AI hopes Nvidia has powered one third of the Mag 7's bull market gains Results from four Big Tech companies showed combined AI spending reaching an eye-popping $725 billion this year. Microsoft tops earnings estimates, says AI business up 123% year over year Meta stock falls despite earnings beat as AI spending plans spook investors Alphabet earnings top estimates on strong Google Cloud growth The Dow and S&P 500 slipped as oil surged, with Big Tech earnings on deck Powell will stay on as governor, says he has no choice amid legal attacks on Fed Powell holds what is expected to be his final press conference as chair after the Fed keeps rates steady Fed holds interest rates steady with no end to Iran war in sight Elon Musk testified again in the OpenAI trial, describing his behavior at the company and its nonprofit 'halo' A Senate committee confirmed Kevin Warsh, sending his nomination to be chairman of the Fed to the full Senate Stocks slipped at the open as investors awaited a Fed decision and Big Tech earnings The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq dropped as chip stocks sank and oil rose S&P 500 and Nasdaq sink, Dow rises as OpenAI-linked stocks falter and UAE exits OPEC The United Arab Emirates will leave OPEC+ effective May 1 The only number that matters for 'Magnificent 7' earnings this week The S&P 500 and Nasdaq notched fresh records, while oil edged higher as markets weighed Iran peace odds Gasoline prices are expected to turn higher as oil holds above $100 per barrel amid uncertainty over the US-Iran war US stocks open mixed as markets brace for a big week of Big Tech earnings. The rapid run-up in chip stocks has reignited the AI trade as the S&P 500 and Nasdaq sit at record highs. Americans are feeling less confident about their retirement savings. Here are some of the best ways to get started early. (Bloomberg) -- OpenAI and Anthropic PBC are both forming joint ventures with some of world’s most recognizable financial institutions in a race to drive more adoption of their artificial intelligence tools. Most Read from Bloomberg China’s Unprecedented Defiance of US Sanctions Triggers Showdown Former NYC Mayor Giuliani in Critical Condition, Trump Says Beijing Tells China Firms to Ignore US Sanctions on Refiners Supertanker Appears to Have Crossed the Strait of Hormuz US Denies Iran Report That Naval Ship Was Hit by Missiles OpenAI has raised more than $4 billion from investors including TPG Inc., Brookfield Asset Management, Advent and Bain Capital for a firm focused on helping businesses leverage its AI software, Bloomberg reported on Monday. Within minutes of that news, rival Anthropic announced it’s partnering with Blackstone Inc., Hellman & Friedman and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to form a similar company. Both efforts coincide with the rise of “forward-deployed engineers” — people being aggressively recruited by seemingly every AI model developer to explain to businesses how AI software can improve their operations. Their goal is to accelerate more adoption of the technology that AI companies have spent billions of dollars to create, and are still trying to turn a profit from. Boosting adoption rates has become an ever more critical task for OpenAI and Anthropic as both are targeting initial public offerings as soon as this year. OpenAI’s new venture is called The Deployment Company, according to a person with knowledge of the venture who asked not to be identified because the information isn’t yet public. The fundraising values OpenAI’s new company at $10 billion, not including the money, the person said, adding that the firm will be majority-owned and controlled by OpenAI. Other partners include Dragoneer Investment Group and SoftBank Group Corp., among others, the person said, as well as a mix of consulting firms. Bloomberg News previously reported OpenAI was in discussions for the joint venture. Spokespeople for OpenAI, TPG and Brookfield declined to comment. Representatives for the other partner companies didn’t respond to requests for comment. With its own venture, Anthropic said it’s aiming to deploy its flagship Claude AI system into the core operations of a broad group of midsize companies. That venture also received backing from Apollo Global Management Inc., General Atlantic, Leonard Green & Partners, GIC and Sequoia Capital. Anthropic’s new firm will help integrate AI tools into companies owned by the asset managers backing it, as well as firms not owned by those asset managers. Both OpenAI and Anthropic have seen particularly strong demand for their AI-powered coding tools, which have sped up programming for software developers. But they’re increasing pushing into other sectors such as financial services and healthcare to bolster their sales. The partners for OpenAI’s new joint venture have access to more than 2,000 portfolio companies and clients, according to the person familiar with that business. The aim is to use those relationships to enable more businesses to adopt AI, the person said. Last month, OpenAI said Chief Operating Officer Brad Lightcap would shift into a new role leading special projects, including overseeing the company’s push to sell software to businesses through the joint venture. --With assistance from Allison McNeely and Shirin Ghaffary. (Updates with details on Anthropic’s deal starting in first paragraph) Most Read from Bloomberg Businessweek America’s Go-To Autism Therapy Is Also the Most Controversial Whatnot Has Americans Hooked on Livestream Shopping It’s Boating Season, But Only If You Can Afford Fuel The NBA Draft Is Bad for Business Ready or Not, the AI Phones Are Coming ©2026 Bloomberg L.P. Weʼre unable to load stories right now. Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Sign in to access your portfolio