Title: Trump Administration Targets Dismantling of Already-Weakened DEI
Date: 2026-05-04 20:06
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/economy/policy/articles/dei-programs-dwindling-trump-administration-101518951.html?.tsrc=rss

Oops, something went wrong Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Spirit Airlines is gone. Here are the low-cost airlines filling the gap. Court documents show Musk warned OpenAI execs they would become 'the most hated men in America' days before the trial began Palantir beats earnings expectations, with revenue rising 85% on booming US business Dow, S&P 500, Nasdaq drop, oil surges as Middle East attacks escalate GameStop’s CEO dodged questions on funding the deal, leaving investors uneasy Dow sags while S&P 500, Nasdaq waver as Hormuz tensions rise Why trade deficits under Trump are so difficult to understand (and so easy to spin) Buying record highs looks riskier in the Nasdaq and Russell 2000 than in the broader market Would a gas tax holiday lower prices? What drivers should know. Wall Street sees more market gains as strong earnings fuel the AI trade The April jobs report and more major first quarter results await investors this week. April added roughly $1.2 trillion to Alphabet’s market value, or just over 50 times Google’s IPO valuation. Toto Wolff on Mercedes F1's dominant start, the 'outstanding' Kimi Antonelli, and why vulnerability is a leader's 'superpower' The average cost of college in 2026 (and how to pay for it) Network shakeups hit Medicare Advantage, forcing retirees to pay up or find new care Jerome Powell's Fed years were an everything rally The Iran War almost upended spring homebuying, but so far the market is showing 'surprising resilience' Berkshire Hathaway's profits double as shareholders gather for the annual meeting in Omaha (Associated Press) Bankrupt carrier Spirit Airlines ceased operations Saturday, the industry's first closure linked to the Iran war. If Spirit Airlines shuts down, travel chaos could ramp up. Here's how to protect your summer travel plans. The S&P 500 and Nasdaq jumped to record highs as the AI trade fueled a tech rally The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq advanced after hitting record highs as earnings rolled in Apple's earnings beat is part of an amazing trend AI developers are snapping up Mac minis, sparking a shortage that could drag on for months Apple beats earnings estimates on strong iPhone and China sales Dow jumps 750 points, S&P 500 and Nasdaq notch record highs to end the best month for stocks since 2020 The AI earnings bonanza is splitting investors Trump bets Hormuz blockade will break Iran before triggering a global crisis US stocks climb as economic updates, solid earnings roll in and Big Techs buoy AI hopes Nvidia has powered one third of the Mag 7's bull market gains Results from four Big Tech companies showed combined AI spending reaching an eye-popping $725 billion this year. Microsoft tops earnings estimates, says AI business up 123% year over year Meta stock falls despite earnings beat as AI spending plans spook investors Alphabet earnings top estimates on strong Google Cloud growth The Dow and S&P 500 slipped as oil surged, with Big Tech earnings on deck Powell will stay on as governor, says he has no choice amid legal attacks on Fed Powell holds what is expected to be his final press conference as chair after the Fed keeps rates steady Fed holds interest rates steady with no end to Iran war in sight Elon Musk testified again in the OpenAI trial, describing his behavior at the company and its nonprofit 'halo' A Senate committee confirmed Kevin Warsh, sending his nomination to be chairman of the Fed to the full Senate Stocks slipped at the open as investors awaited a Fed decision and Big Tech earnings The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq dropped as chip stocks sank and oil rose S&P 500 and Nasdaq sink, Dow rises as OpenAI-linked stocks falter and UAE exits OPEC The United Arab Emirates will leave OPEC+ effective May 1 The only number that matters for 'Magnificent 7' earnings this week The S&P 500 and Nasdaq notched fresh records, while oil edged higher as markets weighed Iran peace odds Gasoline prices are expected to turn higher as oil holds above $100 per barrel amid uncertainty over the US-Iran war US stocks open mixed as markets brace for a big week of Big Tech earnings. The rapid run-up in chip stocks has reignited the AI trade as the S&P 500 and Nasdaq sit at record highs. Americans are feeling less confident about their retirement savings. Here are some of the best ways to get started early. (Bloomberg) -- After a remarkably successful effort to extinguish diversity, equity and inclusion programs at US employers, federal officials are stepping up their push against corporate America’s remaining DEI initiatives. Most Read from Bloomberg China’s Unprecedented Defiance of US Sanctions Triggers Showdown US and Iran Trade Fire in Gulf, Jolting Four-Week-Old Truce Former NYC Mayor Giuliani in Critical Condition, Trump Says US Has Opened a Passage Through Hormuz, Central Command Says Beijing Tells China Firms to Ignore US Sanctions on Refiners Last week it was a review of Walt Disney Co. television station licenses over the company's discrimination policies, following a Jimmy Kimmel joke that drew ire from the president. Before that, it was a $17 million settlement with IBM regarding its DEI practices, and a lawsuit against Nike Inc. for allegedly not cooperating with an investigation into bias against White workers. In February, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission sent a letter to Fortune 500 CEOs and their boards reaffirming its mission to root out discrimination. Executives are now calling lawyers, consultants and conservative activists to confirm the changes they've made are sufficient to avoid further scrutiny, said Johnny Taylor, CEO of SHRM, an HR industry association. Minority supplier programs have become small-business supplier programs. Gender or racial employee quotas have been scrapped. Gone are most diversity metrics for executive pay. And these days corporate leaders are more willing to hear out DEI critics among their shareholder base, conservative activist investors say. Casual observers might have concluded that the push to eradicate DEI would wind down after victories by self-described “anti-woke” activists and the Trump White House in 2025. Responding to executive orders issued at the start of President Donald Trump’s second term, federal contractors disavowed DEI at every level, reversing policies of using employees’ preferred pronouns, among other actions. In his February State of the Union address, Trump declared that his administration “ended DEI in America.” And a month later, legal strategist Edward Blum who led the successful effort to ban affirmative action in college admissions said he was no longer able to find evidence of minority-only internships at the country’s law firms despite an ongoing “hunt.” The Trump administration isn’t done, and officials have been explicit that they’re looking at situations where they believe White men, US citizens and Christians have been put at a disadvantage. EEOC Chair Andrea Lucas has warned businesses that her agency is on watch, following a video she posted in December specifically looking for instances of bias against White men. The EEOC in March announced a $500,000 settlement with Planned Parenthood of Illinois related to DEI training. Shortly after, Trump offered a fresh executive order against federal contractors who might be concealing ongoing DEI programs, and his economic advisors released research claiming that DEI has been a drag on America’s GDP. The EEOC has issued a steady stream of press releases calling attention to cases focused on anti-Christian bias and other groups who have historically been in the majority in the US. “Chair Lucas and the Trump Administration are ensuring all Americans are treated fairly by rigorously enforcing civil rights laws, ending illegal DEI-motivated race and sex discrimination, and upholding the Constitution,” White House spokeswoman Liz Huston said in a statement. The EEOC’s posture is tempered by the reality that the agency is much smaller than it used to be because of recent federal staffing cuts, said Jenny Yang, a partner at law firm Outten and Golden LLP, who chaired the commission from 2014 to 2017. The agency will have to carefully pick cases to pursue, she said. “I do think they are trying to blow up a lot of these investigations” to make them seem more substantive and national in scope, she said. But that is still a cost that companies are hoping to avoid, even if they are unlikely to be violating laws, she said. For now, Yang said the agency may be overcoming staffing shortages by requiring companies to provide more documents than in the past. In its lawsuit against Nike, and a November filing against Northwestern Mutual Insurance Co., the EEOC has asked companies to turn over more materials for its investigations. Northwestern last week asked a federal judge to block the EEOC subpoena. Nike said it has already submitted thousands of documents and continues to cooperate. In a statement, Nike said it is committed to fair and lawful employment practices, including those related to discrimination. "We believe our programs and practices are consistent with those obligations and take these matters seriously,” it said. The question of exactly what counts as “illegal DEI” hasn’t been adjudicated by the US Supreme Court. In the meantime, companies are left to decide the level of risk they are willing to take. Salesforce, for example, agreed to stop using the civil rights group Southern Poverty Law Center’s criteria to decide whether to match employee’s charitable donations. (The Justice Department has since charged the SPLC with bank fraud, though the group has disputed the claims.) Apple, meanwhile, affirmed to conservative investors it took steps to block access to pornographic images and videos from children who use its messaging apps, said Isaac Willour, who directs corporate engagement at Bowyer Research, one of the firms helping investors with conservative proxy proposals and corporate engagement. Salesforce didn’t respond to requests for comment. Apple had no comment. Some companies have resisted pressure to change their practices. Costco defended its programs against conservative activists last year, rejecting requests to detail the risks of its DEI efforts. Colgate-Palmolive Co. in February told a conservative shareholder group that it intends to defend using race, gender and sexual orientation as criteria for identifying future board members, even as Bloomberg and others reported Goldman Sachs Group is considering ending the practice. (Colgate-Palmolive shareholders will vote on the measure Friday.) Other companies have been working quietly to dial back language around race and equity in company documents and regulatory filings. When the conservative nonprofit National Legal and Policy Center said in February that American Express Co., Deere & Co. and Johnson & Johnson had ended a practice of including DEI criteria in selecting board members, none of the companies commented publicly.Conservative investor groups opposed to DEI are also applying pressure to companies, whether through shareholder proposals or negotiations intended to head off formal proxy votes.“Companies overall have been much more willing to talk,” said Tim Schwarzenberger, portfolio manager and director of corporate engagement for Inspire Investing, which manages $4.2 billion and is the largest provider of Christian exchange-traded funds, and opposes many DEI practices. In the last several months, Schwarzenberger and his allies have had conversations with companies including Nike, McKesson Corp. and First Citizens BancShares Inc. The discussions have covered a range of topics including LGBTQ policies, religious accommodations and DEI metrics in board appointments, he said. Inspire Investing prepared about 40 proposals asking companies to reconsider programs related to DEI and other conservative causes at annual meetings this year. About 60% of those have since been withdrawn, including at McKesson, after companies agreed to make sufficient changes, he said. McKesson had no comment. Not all of the discussions have led to action. Nike, for example, hasn’t responded formally to Inspire’s request that it end support for the Human Rights Campaign, an LGBTQ non-profit; and First Citizens recommended a no vote on a proxy-ballot proposal that the company prepare a report assessing the cost of not having faith-based employee resource groups. (First Citizens shareholders voted on the proposal Monday. The bank acknowledged receipt of a request for comment, but did not respond.) Bowyer Research’s Willour also found that the number of companies willing to engage with conservative groups and make changes has increased dramatically. The firm is working on 79 proposals this year, including the Nike proposal with Inspire. So far the discussions have led to 40 proposals being withdrawn because of agreements to make changes or continue discussions, according to Willour. Last year, they were only able to make such agreements on nine of 36 proposals, he said. Robby Starbuck, the conservative influencer whose social media campaigns have pressured companies like Walmart Inc. and Harley-Davidson Inc. to publicly back off their DEI policies, said he has been advising the White House on its continued workplace push and has heard from companies on avoiding regulator scrutiny. Starbuck said he still gets tips from employees about potentially problematic situations at work, such as when companies sponsor an employee networking group for Muslim workers but not one for Christians, or complaints that one group is getting more funding than others. Following the EEOC letter to businesses in February, Starbuck offered his view to government officials in a Zoom meeting. Attendees representing federal agencies huddled in a crowded White House conference room to listen, he said. He told them separating people by race can lead to one group being favored unlawfully over another. “You can’t do half a revolution,” Starbuck said. “You have to go all the way with things.” (Adds details of Colgate-Palmolive shareholder vote in paragraph 16. An earlier version corrected spelling of DEI in terminal headline.) Most Read from Bloomberg Businessweek America’s Go-To Autism Therapy Is Also the Most Controversial Whatnot Has Americans Hooked on Livestream Shopping The Risky Pivot Inside Australia’s Pension System It’s Boating Season, But Only If You Can Afford Fuel Running America’s Second-Busiest Airport in Turbulent Times ©2026 Bloomberg L.P. Weʼre unable to load stories right now. Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Sign in to access your portfolio