Title: AI Chipmakers in Korea, Taiwan Drive Asian Stocks to Record
Date: 2026-05-04 09:23
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/ai-chipmakers-korea-taiwan-drive-063820107.html?.tsrc=rss

Oops, something went wrong Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Spirit Airlines is gone. Here are the low-cost airlines filling the gap. Court documents show Musk warned OpenAI execs they would become 'the most hated men in America' days before the trial began Palantir beats earnings expectations, with revenue rising 85% on booming US business Dow, S&P 500, Nasdaq drop, oil surges as Middle East attacks escalate GameStop’s CEO dodged questions on funding the deal, leaving investors uneasy Dow sags while S&P 500, Nasdaq waver as Hormuz tensions rise Why trade deficits under Trump are so difficult to understand (and so easy to spin) Buying record highs looks riskier in the Nasdaq and Russell 2000 than in the broader market Would a gas tax holiday lower prices? What drivers should know. Wall Street sees more market gains as strong earnings fuel the AI trade The April jobs report and more major first quarter results await investors this week. April added roughly $1.2 trillion to Alphabet’s market value, or just over 50 times Google’s IPO valuation. Toto Wolff on Mercedes F1's dominant start, the 'outstanding' Kimi Antonelli, and why vulnerability is a leader's 'superpower' The average cost of college in 2026 (and how to pay for it) Network shakeups hit Medicare Advantage, forcing retirees to pay up or find new care Jerome Powell's Fed years were an everything rally The Iran War almost upended spring homebuying, but so far the market is showing 'surprising resilience' Berkshire Hathaway's profits double as shareholders gather for the annual meeting in Omaha (Associated Press) Bankrupt carrier Spirit Airlines ceased operations Saturday, the industry's first closure linked to the Iran war. If Spirit Airlines shuts down, travel chaos could ramp up. Here's how to protect your summer travel plans. The S&P 500 and Nasdaq jumped to record highs as the AI trade fueled a tech rally The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq advanced after hitting record highs as earnings rolled in Apple's earnings beat is part of an amazing trend AI developers are snapping up Mac minis, sparking a shortage that could drag on for months Apple beats earnings estimates on strong iPhone and China sales Dow jumps 750 points, S&P 500 and Nasdaq notch record highs to end the best month for stocks since 2020 The AI earnings bonanza is splitting investors Trump bets Hormuz blockade will break Iran before triggering a global crisis US stocks climb as economic updates, solid earnings roll in and Big Techs buoy AI hopes Nvidia has powered one third of the Mag 7's bull market gains Results from four Big Tech companies showed combined AI spending reaching an eye-popping $725 billion this year. Microsoft tops earnings estimates, says AI business up 123% year over year Meta stock falls despite earnings beat as AI spending plans spook investors Alphabet earnings top estimates on strong Google Cloud growth The Dow and S&P 500 slipped as oil surged, with Big Tech earnings on deck Powell will stay on as governor, says he has no choice amid legal attacks on Fed Powell holds what is expected to be his final press conference as chair after the Fed keeps rates steady Fed holds interest rates steady with no end to Iran war in sight Elon Musk testified again in the OpenAI trial, describing his behavior at the company and its nonprofit 'halo' A Senate committee confirmed Kevin Warsh, sending his nomination to be chairman of the Fed to the full Senate Stocks slipped at the open as investors awaited a Fed decision and Big Tech earnings The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq dropped as chip stocks sank and oil rose S&P 500 and Nasdaq sink, Dow rises as OpenAI-linked stocks falter and UAE exits OPEC The United Arab Emirates will leave OPEC+ effective May 1 The only number that matters for 'Magnificent 7' earnings this week The S&P 500 and Nasdaq notched fresh records, while oil edged higher as markets weighed Iran peace odds Gasoline prices are expected to turn higher as oil holds above $100 per barrel amid uncertainty over the US-Iran war US stocks open mixed as markets brace for a big week of Big Tech earnings. The rapid run-up in chip stocks has reignited the AI trade as the S&P 500 and Nasdaq sit at record highs. Americans are feeling less confident about their retirement savings. Here are some of the best ways to get started early. (Bloomberg) -- A rally in shares tied to artificial intelligence helped Asia’s stock benchmark wipe out losses sparked by the Iran war and climb back to an all-time high. Most Read from Bloomberg Beijing Tells China Firms to Ignore US Sanctions on Refiners Former NYC Mayor Giuliani in Critical Condition, Trump Says Supertanker Appears to Have Crossed the Strait of Hormuz World’s Largest Container Carrier Plans Route Avoiding Hormuz China’s Unprecedented Defiance of US Sanctions Triggers Showdown The MSCI Asia Pacific Index jumped as much as 2.3% on Monday, the most since April 8, before paring some gains. Tech-heavy benchmarks in South Korea and Taiwan surged more than 4.5% each. The moves came after the S&P 500 Index extended a record-breaking streak Friday to mark a fifth week of gains, following solid earnings from tech mega caps. The AI theme — a dominant feature of markets before the outbreak of the Middle East conflict — has returned to the forefront as last month’s ceasefire agreement between the US and Iran calmed investor nerves. Asia’s benchmark surged more than 13% in April, erasing almost all of the declines suffered in March. It is up 15% so far this year. “Investors are moving past the initial shock from the Middle East tensions, with more joining the FOMO trade,” said Francis Tan, Asia chief strategist at Indosuez Wealth in Singapore. President Donald Trump said over the weekend that the US will begin guiding out some neutral ships trapped in the Persian Gulf starting Monday. That’s after announcing he was sticking with a naval blockade of Iranian ports, adding to concerns that the vital Strait of Hormuz could remain effectively shut for a while. Asia has emerged as a key pillar of the AI boom, pairing its dominance in semiconductor manufacturing with rapidly expanding data infrastructure. At the heart of it are three companies that provide essential hardware for AI: Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., the world’s largest chip foundry, and South Korea’s leading memory makers Samsung Electronics Co. and SK Hynix Inc. Shares of SK Hynix soared nearly 13% on Monday to a record, while TSMC’s jumped 6.6% to their all-time high. Samsung’s stock also jumped more than 5% to a record. Markets in mainland China and Japan were among those shut for holidays. The AI-led surge is masking underlying strains in the broader Asian market, while creating a significant divergence in performance across the region’s equities. While North Asian markets like Korea and Taiwan are riding the rally, South and Southeast Asian peers such as energy-reliant India, Indonesia and the Philippines have lagged amid concern that the war-led spike in oil prices will fuel inflation and weigh on external balances. Markets like South Korea are currently performing well because of this AI-driven trade or hype, Dilin Wu, a research strategist at Pepperstone Group, said in a Bloomberg TV interview. “I would be cautiously optimistic on the Asian market in general,” as the geopolitical uncertainty and high oil prices may be a constraint to equities, she said. Sectors to Watch Chinese property developers jumped in Hong Kong on optimism that home sales are recovering on the back of local government incentives. Shares of Henderson Land and Link REIT gain as much as 6% and 2.7%, respectively, after Morgan Stanley upgrades them to overweight from equal-weight on Hong Kong’s property market recovery broadening beyond the residential sector. South Korean stocks related to the EV battery supply chain advance, with analysts pointing to improving EV demand, potential lithium price hikes and earnings outlook. China’s electric vehicle makers rise after reporting robust wholesales data in April thanks to resilient overseas demand. BYD’s domestic and export volumes topped consensus projections, according to analysts. Markets at a Glance MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 2% Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index rose 1.2%; Hong Kong’s Hang Seng China Enterprises Index rose 1.1% Taiwan’s Taiex Index rose 4.6% South Korea’s Kospi Index rose 5.1%; South Korea’s Kospi 200 Index rose 5.8% Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index fell 0.4%; New Zealand’s S&P/NZX 50 Gross Index rose 0.4% India’s NSE Nifty 50 Index rose 0.3% Singapore’s Straits Times Index rose 0.3%; Malaysia’s KLCI Index rose 1%; Philippines’ PSEi Index rose 1.9%; Indonesia’s JCI Index was little changed; Vietnam’s VN Index was little changed Cboe Volatility Index rose 0.60 points Bloomberg Dollar Index was little changed West Texas Intermediate crude rose 1.5% to $103 a barrel Euro was little changed Here Are the Most Notable Movers Samsung Securities shares closed 28% higher on Korea Exchange after Yonhap reported the brokerage has entered a partnership with Interactive Brokers to enable overseas investors to trade Korean stocks. Shares of Adani group companies advanced as Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s party led its rivals in early vote counts in West Bengal, on track to win its first-ever victory in the key state. Australian supermarket chain Coles Group Ltd. said the price of some groceries is certain to climb as the company and its suppliers grapple with soaring fuel costs. Prada’s shares rose as much as 8% in Hong Kong on Monday before paring gains, as analysts viewed the stock’s valuation as depressed and highlighted the management’s constructive outlook, which pointed to improving trends in recent weeks. Shares of MiniMax jumps after Goldman upgrades the stock to buy from neutral, citing stronger revenue prospects driven by an expected new model launch, and recommends investors buy the latest pullback. MediaTek shares soar to a record in Taipei trading after the chipmaker posted first-quarter net income that beat the average analyst estimate, with its AI ASIC revenue guidance lifting optimism. National Australia Bank shares drop as much as 4% to the lowest since Aug. 13, after the Australian lender reported cash profit for the first half-year that missed the average analyst estimate. Notes From the Sell-Side US corporate earnings have proved resilient against the widely feared impact of the Middle East conflict, according to Morgan Stanley strategists, who say hyperscalers and semiconductor firms have been major contributors to the broad-based earnings strength. US companies have so far reported “exceptionally strong” 1Q earnings with 63% of S&P 500 stocks having already reported, and guidance remains strong, according to Goldman Sachs strategists. Related Market News Taking Stock: The list of Asian stocks that benefit from business partnership with Nvidia Corp. is getting longer, as the region further integrates into the AI chip giant’s business ecosystem. Inside Asia: South Korea’s won led most Asian currencies higher after a central bank official said it’s time to consider raising interest rates. The currency was also boosted by a rally in local shares to a record high. Global Wrap: US equity futures pointed to further gains after Asian shares hit a fresh record on optimism around the artificial intelligence trade and stronger-than-expected earnings from megacap tech companies. The yen briefly spiked higher as traders remained on edge over possible intervention by the Bank of Japan. This story was produced with the assistance of Bloomberg Automation. (Upddates with comment after third paragraph.) Most Read from Bloomberg Businessweek America’s Go-To Autism Therapy Is Also the Most Controversial It’s Boating Season, But Only If You Can Afford Fuel Ready or Not, the AI Phones Are Coming Running America’s Second-Busiest Airport in Turbulent Times The NBA Draft Is Bad for Business ©2026 Bloomberg L.P. Weʼre unable to load stories right now. Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Sign in to access your portfolio