Title: Best CD rates today, May 4, 2026 (Lock in up to 4.1% APY)
Date: 2026-05-04 10:00
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/personal-finance/banking/article/best-cd-rates-today-monday-may-4-2026-100000428.html?.tsrc=rss

Oops, something went wrong Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Spirit Airlines is gone. Here are the low-cost airlines filling the gap. Court documents show Musk warned OpenAI execs they would become 'the most hated men in America' days before the trial began Palantir beats earnings expectations, with revenue rising 85% on booming US business Dow, S&P 500, Nasdaq drop, oil surges as Middle East attacks escalate GameStop’s CEO dodged questions on funding the deal, leaving investors uneasy Dow sags while S&P 500, Nasdaq waver as Hormuz tensions rise Why trade deficits under Trump are so difficult to understand (and so easy to spin) Buying record highs looks riskier in the Nasdaq and Russell 2000 than in the broader market Would a gas tax holiday lower prices? What drivers should know. Wall Street sees more market gains as strong earnings fuel the AI trade The April jobs report and more major first quarter results await investors this week. April added roughly $1.2 trillion to Alphabet’s market value, or just over 50 times Google’s IPO valuation. Toto Wolff on Mercedes F1's dominant start, the 'outstanding' Kimi Antonelli, and why vulnerability is a leader's 'superpower' The average cost of college in 2026 (and how to pay for it) Network shakeups hit Medicare Advantage, forcing retirees to pay up or find new care Jerome Powell's Fed years were an everything rally The Iran War almost upended spring homebuying, but so far the market is showing 'surprising resilience' Berkshire Hathaway's profits double as shareholders gather for the annual meeting in Omaha (Associated Press) Bankrupt carrier Spirit Airlines ceased operations Saturday, the industry's first closure linked to the Iran war. If Spirit Airlines shuts down, travel chaos could ramp up. Here's how to protect your summer travel plans. The S&P 500 and Nasdaq jumped to record highs as the AI trade fueled a tech rally The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq advanced after hitting record highs as earnings rolled in Apple's earnings beat is part of an amazing trend AI developers are snapping up Mac minis, sparking a shortage that could drag on for months Apple beats earnings estimates on strong iPhone and China sales Dow jumps 750 points, S&P 500 and Nasdaq notch record highs to end the best month for stocks since 2020 The AI earnings bonanza is splitting investors Trump bets Hormuz blockade will break Iran before triggering a global crisis US stocks climb as economic updates, solid earnings roll in and Big Techs buoy AI hopes Nvidia has powered one third of the Mag 7's bull market gains Results from four Big Tech companies showed combined AI spending reaching an eye-popping $725 billion this year. Microsoft tops earnings estimates, says AI business up 123% year over year Meta stock falls despite earnings beat as AI spending plans spook investors Alphabet earnings top estimates on strong Google Cloud growth The Dow and S&P 500 slipped as oil surged, with Big Tech earnings on deck Powell will stay on as governor, says he has no choice amid legal attacks on Fed Powell holds what is expected to be his final press conference as chair after the Fed keeps rates steady Fed holds interest rates steady with no end to Iran war in sight Elon Musk testified again in the OpenAI trial, describing his behavior at the company and its nonprofit 'halo' A Senate committee confirmed Kevin Warsh, sending his nomination to be chairman of the Fed to the full Senate Stocks slipped at the open as investors awaited a Fed decision and Big Tech earnings The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq dropped as chip stocks sank and oil rose S&P 500 and Nasdaq sink, Dow rises as OpenAI-linked stocks falter and UAE exits OPEC The United Arab Emirates will leave OPEC+ effective May 1 The only number that matters for 'Magnificent 7' earnings this week The S&P 500 and Nasdaq notched fresh records, while oil edged higher as markets weighed Iran peace odds Gasoline prices are expected to turn higher as oil holds above $100 per barrel amid uncertainty over the US-Iran war US stocks open mixed as markets brace for a big week of Big Tech earnings. The rapid run-up in chip stocks has reignited the AI trade as the S&P 500 and Nasdaq sit at record highs. Americans are feeling less confident about their retirement savings. Here are some of the best ways to get started early. Some offers on this page are from advertisers who pay us, which may affect which products we write about, but not our recommendations. See ourAdvertiser Disclosure. Today’s CD rates still hover well above the national average. The Federal Reserve reduced its target interest rate three times in 2025 and has left rates alone in 2026. This has had a ripple effect on deposit account rates, making now a great opportunity to lock in today's high rates with acertificate of deposit(CD). Here’s a look at today’sbest CD ratesand where you can find the best offers. Today, the highest CD rate is 4.1% APY. This rate is offered by United Fidelity Bank on its 2-year CD. Here is a look at some of the best CD rates available today from our verified partners. If you're considering a CD, these rates are some of the highest available, especially when compared to the national average rates, which are significantly lower. It's also worth noting thatonline banksandcredit unionsgenerally offer more competitive rates compared to traditional brick-and-mortar banks​. Read more:What is a good CD rate? Here’s a look at the average CD rate by term as of April 2026 (the most recent data available from theFDIC): The highest national average interest rate for CDs stands at 1.53% for a 1-year term. However, in general, today’s average CD rates represent some of the highest seen in nearly two decades, largely due to the Federal Reserve's efforts to combat inflation by keeping interest rates elevated. If you’re thinking aboutopening a CD, it’s important to choose one with a high APY and term length that matches your financial goals. Here are some tips for finding the best CD rates and accounts that match your needs: Shop around:It’s a good idea to evaluate CD rates from a variety of financial institutions and compare your options before settling on an account. You can easily compare CD rates online. Consider online banks:Online banks tend to have lower overhead costs, which allows them to offer higher interest rates on CDs. In fact, online banks often have the most competitive rates available. Check minimum deposit requirements:Higher CD rates might come with higher minimum deposit requirements, so make sure the amount you plan to deposit aligns with the requirements to get the best rate. Review account terms and conditions:Beyond the CD’s rate, look at terms for early withdrawal penalties and auto-renewal policies. Some CDs offer better terms for flexibility, such asno-penalty CDs, which allow you to withdraw your funds without a fee before the maturity date. What factors should I consider when choosing CDs? Why are online banks offering better CD rates? How do current rates compare to national averages? What are today's highest available CD rates?