Title: Treasury Market on Watch for Shift in Yellen-Era Debt Plan
Date: 2026-05-04 19:24
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/news/treasury-market-watch-shift-yellen-190001042.html?.tsrc=rss

Oops, something went wrong Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Spirit Airlines is gone. Here are the low-cost airlines filling the gap. Court documents show Musk warned OpenAI execs they would become 'the most hated men in America' days before the trial began Palantir beats earnings expectations, with revenue rising 85% on booming US business Dow, S&P 500, Nasdaq drop, oil surges as Middle East attacks escalate GameStop’s CEO dodged questions on funding the deal, leaving investors uneasy Dow sags while S&P 500, Nasdaq waver as Hormuz tensions rise Why trade deficits under Trump are so difficult to understand (and so easy to spin) Buying record highs looks riskier in the Nasdaq and Russell 2000 than in the broader market Would a gas tax holiday lower prices? What drivers should know. Wall Street sees more market gains as strong earnings fuel the AI trade The April jobs report and more major first quarter results await investors this week. April added roughly $1.2 trillion to Alphabet’s market value, or just over 50 times Google’s IPO valuation. Toto Wolff on Mercedes F1's dominant start, the 'outstanding' Kimi Antonelli, and why vulnerability is a leader's 'superpower' The average cost of college in 2026 (and how to pay for it) Network shakeups hit Medicare Advantage, forcing retirees to pay up or find new care Jerome Powell's Fed years were an everything rally The Iran War almost upended spring homebuying, but so far the market is showing 'surprising resilience' Berkshire Hathaway's profits double as shareholders gather for the annual meeting in Omaha (Associated Press) Bankrupt carrier Spirit Airlines ceased operations Saturday, the industry's first closure linked to the Iran war. If Spirit Airlines shuts down, travel chaos could ramp up. Here's how to protect your summer travel plans. The S&P 500 and Nasdaq jumped to record highs as the AI trade fueled a tech rally The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq advanced after hitting record highs as earnings rolled in Apple's earnings beat is part of an amazing trend AI developers are snapping up Mac minis, sparking a shortage that could drag on for months Apple beats earnings estimates on strong iPhone and China sales Dow jumps 750 points, S&P 500 and Nasdaq notch record highs to end the best month for stocks since 2020 The AI earnings bonanza is splitting investors Trump bets Hormuz blockade will break Iran before triggering a global crisis US stocks climb as economic updates, solid earnings roll in and Big Techs buoy AI hopes Nvidia has powered one third of the Mag 7's bull market gains Results from four Big Tech companies showed combined AI spending reaching an eye-popping $725 billion this year. Microsoft tops earnings estimates, says AI business up 123% year over year Meta stock falls despite earnings beat as AI spending plans spook investors Alphabet earnings top estimates on strong Google Cloud growth The Dow and S&P 500 slipped as oil surged, with Big Tech earnings on deck Powell will stay on as governor, says he has no choice amid legal attacks on Fed Powell holds what is expected to be his final press conference as chair after the Fed keeps rates steady Fed holds interest rates steady with no end to Iran war in sight Elon Musk testified again in the OpenAI trial, describing his behavior at the company and its nonprofit 'halo' A Senate committee confirmed Kevin Warsh, sending his nomination to be chairman of the Fed to the full Senate Stocks slipped at the open as investors awaited a Fed decision and Big Tech earnings The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq dropped as chip stocks sank and oil rose S&P 500 and Nasdaq sink, Dow rises as OpenAI-linked stocks falter and UAE exits OPEC The United Arab Emirates will leave OPEC+ effective May 1 The only number that matters for 'Magnificent 7' earnings this week The S&P 500 and Nasdaq notched fresh records, while oil edged higher as markets weighed Iran peace odds Gasoline prices are expected to turn higher as oil holds above $100 per barrel amid uncertainty over the US-Iran war US stocks open mixed as markets brace for a big week of Big Tech earnings. The rapid run-up in chip stocks has reignited the AI trade as the S&P 500 and Nasdaq sit at record highs. Americans are feeling less confident about their retirement savings. Here are some of the best ways to get started early. (Bloomberg) -- Wednesday will amount to a sort of Groundhog Day for US bond dealers, who will — as has been the case for more than a year now — be watching for any change in guidance from the Treasury in its latest plan for debt issuance. Most Read from Bloomberg China’s Unprecedented Defiance of US Sanctions Triggers Showdown US and Iran Trade Fire in Gulf, Jolting Four-Week-Old Truce Former NYC Mayor Giuliani in Critical Condition, Trump Says US Has Opened a Passage Through Hormuz, Central Command Says Beijing Tells China Firms to Ignore US Sanctions on Refiners Investors will look for any adjustment to the Treasury’s guidance in its quarterly refunding statement about increases in note and bond issuance not to be expected “for at least the next several quarters.” While longer-term Treasuries are currently costlier than short-dated debt, relying on bills to keep funding a near-$2 trillion annual deficit carries its own risk. “They can’t just keep saying ‘at least several quarters,’” said Jack McIntyre, a portfolio manager at Brandywine Global Investment Management in Philadelphia. “They will try to fight it for as long as they can,” but at some point officials will have to think about boosting sales of interest-bearing debt, he said. Increasing issuance of bills, which mature in up to a year, leaves the government’s debt costs more vulnerable to sudden swings in rates, and to shifts in market sentiment, because auctions are more frequent. The International Monetary Fund just last month cautioned on such dangers. Yet the Treasury has reason to believe strong demand can absorb the increased bill supply, at least for now. Money-market funds have grown to roughly $7.6 trillion — about 42% of which is invested in Treasuries — and continue to expand. Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent has also argued that the GENIUS Act could draw trillions of dollars into Treasuries, since it would require stablecoin issuers to hold reserves in assets such as T‑bills. Before he took office last year, Bessent had criticized the Treasury’s guidance under Janet Yellen. More recently, the statements have tipped that officials are evaluating the potential for “future increases” in auctions of interest-bearing and floating-rate securities, without offering a timeline. That has left dealers on alert for any shift in language on Wednesday. “If you remove ‘at least’ and just say ‘several,’ then the market’s going to say: OK, we have three or so quarters more of this level of coupon issuance,” McIntyre said. What’s inescapable for the Treasury is the steady increase in overall debt, which keeps lifting total issuance. That burden is only growing — with the costs from the Iran war, uncertainty over the future of trade tariffs and slower growth leading to warnings of wider budget deficits. The Treasury on Monday said it expects net borrowing of $189 billion this quarter, some $122 billion more than it anticipated in February, after accounting for a higher cash balance at the start of April. The increase was “primarily due to lower projected net cash flows,” the department said. As for next week’s refunding auctions, dealers widely expect they will be made up of: $58 billion of 3-year notes on May 11 $42 billion of 10-year notes on May 12 $25 billion of 30-year bonds on May 13 Speaking to the degree to which the semantics of the Treasury’s statement will be scrutinized, Wall Street strategists offered a variety of potential changes. JPMorgan Chase and Co. sees “significant risk” the Treasury removes “at least” from its guidance. Barclays Plc expects “at least” to stay but “several” to be switched to the “next few” quarters. Wells Fargo offers: No change “through at least the end of calendar year 2026,” or perhaps a complete removal of the sentence. Morgan Stanley strategists including Martin Tobias wrote in their preview that “the recent rise in yields bodes for Treasury keeping a cautious stance on its forward guidance.” Ten-year yields have climbed to about 4.44% from 4.27% at the last refunding announcement. Any tweaks “could drive price action” in the market, TD Securities strategists cautioned. Indeed, one reason why Citigroup Inc. had expected the Treasury to have already set investors up for an expansion in coupon sizes starting this November was that the market impact “could be minimized by starting earlier.” “However, at this time, we find it very unlikely Bessent would edit the upcoming Treasury policy statement,” Citigroup strategists including Jason Williams wrote. The Citigroup team last month put off its call for coupon-issuance increases until May 2027 “at the earliest.” Goldman Sachs Group Inc. also postponed its projection, with the bank now at February 2027. Among the considerations for the Treasury is shifting patterns of demand for government debt. In recent months, the Federal Reserve has been a buyer of bills as it sought to rebuild bank reserves in the financial system, but those purchases have been scaled back. Going forward, the Fed will soon have a new chair in Kevin Warsh. He told US senators last month that the central bank “should not be holding long-term Treasury assets,” and that he favored shrinking its balance sheet over time. Each of those ideas would have implications for Treasury issuance. Moves by the Trump administration to scale back regulations on banks also have the potential to affect their level of demand for Treasuries. Ahead of the coming refunding statement, the Treasury in its regular quarterly survey of primary dealers asked them for their views on how changes in bank regulation affect investor demand and liquidity in the $31 trillion market. As for the forward guidance, a key outside panel of advisers recommended more than a year ago for the Treasury to ditch the current language. In February, the group — the Treasury Borrowing Advisory Committee, which includes selected dealers and investors — had “robust” discussions on how best to increase auction sizes, according to its letter to Bessent. The debate concerned “the relative trade-offs of increasing auction sizes more gradually, perhaps earlier than needed, compared to a more accelerated path of auction size increases when the financing gap is larger.” The committee also reiterated its view that current projections could warrant increases in coupon issuance in the 2027 fiscal year, which starts in October. The TBAC is due to meet Tuesday, with its statement published alongside the Treasury’s announcements on Wednesday. --With assistance from Alexandra Harris and Elizabeth Stanton. (Updates with Treasury borrowing estimate in sixth paragraph after first chart.) Most Read from Bloomberg Businessweek America’s Go-To Autism Therapy Is Also the Most Controversial Whatnot Has Americans Hooked on Livestream Shopping The Risky Pivot Inside Australia’s Pension System It’s Boating Season, But Only If You Can Afford Fuel Running America’s Second-Busiest Airport in Turbulent Times ©2026 Bloomberg L.P. Weʼre unable to load stories right now. Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Sign in to access your portfolio