Title: News of the day: Condo construction slowdown, sovereign wealth fund, Alberta-Ottawa MOU progress, manufacturing job losses, Imperial restructuring and more
Date: 2026-05-04 21:36
URL: https://financialpost.com/uncategorized/news-of-the-day-condo-construction-slowdown-sovereign-wealth-fund-alberta-ottawa-mou-progress-manufacturing-job-losses-imperial-restructuring-and-more?.tsrc=rss

Catch up on the stories we’re following today You can save this article by registering for freehere. Orsign-inif you have an account. It’s Monday, May 4. Here are the top stories we’re following today. Subscribe now to read the latest news in your city and across Canada. Subscribe now to read the latest news in your city and across Canada. Create an account or sign in to continue with your reading experience. Create an account or sign in to continue with your reading experience. ‘Better than a vacant lot’: Toronto developers turn to pickleball and self-storage as condo construction chill sets in Developers are grappling with the reality of carrying land during a condo-housing construction slowdown. Read the story How Carney’s new sovereign wealth fund could backfire on the economy In the absence of surplus capital, the sovereign wealth fund will almost certainly require additional borrowing, meaning higher public debt recycled into an investment vehicle whose structure, incentives and discipline remain undefined, writes Martin Pelletier. Get the latest headlines, breaking news and columns. By signing up you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc. A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder. The next issue of Top Stories will soon be in your inbox. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again Interested in more newsletters?Browse here. Read the story Oilsands group says progress on MOU too slow, takes aim at ‘uncompetitive industrial carbon tax’ The Oil Sands Alliance Inc. warned that Canada is not moving quickly enough to boost oil production and meet its energy security goals. Read the story Employment in equipment manufacturing in Canada fell in 2025, group says Canadian equipment manufacturers saw jobs and U.S. exports drop in 2025. The upcoming Canada-United-States-Mexico-Agreement review will be crucial going forward. Read the story Imperial Oil cuts 130 jobs as it continues a painful restructuring Imperial Oil Ltd., majority owned by ExxonMobil, is selling its Calgary head office, cutting 900 jobs and moving roles around the world. Read the story Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion. Please keep comments relevant and respectful. Comments may take up to an hour to appear on the site. You will receive an email if there is a reply to your comment, an update to a thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit ourCommunity Guidelinesfor more information. 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 © 2026 Financial Post, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited. This website uses cookies to personalize your content (including ads), and allows us to analyze our traffic. Read more aboutcookies here. By continuing to use our site, you agree to ourTerms of UseandPrivacy Policy. You can manage saved articles in your account. and save up to 100 articles! You can manage your saved articles in youraccountand clicking the X located at the bottom right of the article.