Title: Big Oil Resists Push To Prioritize Output Growth
Date: 2026-05-04 23:00
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/sectors/energy/articles/big-oil-resists-push-prioritize-230000111.html?.tsrc=rss

Oops, something went wrong Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Spirit Airlines is gone. Here are the low-cost airlines filling the gap. Court documents show Musk warned OpenAI execs they would become 'the most hated men in America' days before the trial began Palantir beats earnings expectations, with revenue rising 85% on booming US business Dow, S&P 500, Nasdaq drop, oil surges as Middle East attacks escalate GameStop’s CEO dodged questions on funding the deal, leaving investors uneasy Dow sags while S&P 500, Nasdaq waver as Hormuz tensions rise Why trade deficits under Trump are so difficult to understand (and so easy to spin) Buying record highs looks riskier in the Nasdaq and Russell 2000 than in the broader market Would a gas tax holiday lower prices? What drivers should know. Wall Street sees more market gains as strong earnings fuel the AI trade The April jobs report and more major first quarter results await investors this week. April added roughly $1.2 trillion to Alphabet’s market value, or just over 50 times Google’s IPO valuation. Toto Wolff on Mercedes F1's dominant start, the 'outstanding' Kimi Antonelli, and why vulnerability is a leader's 'superpower' The average cost of college in 2026 (and how to pay for it) Network shakeups hit Medicare Advantage, forcing retirees to pay up or find new care Jerome Powell's Fed years were an everything rally The Iran War almost upended spring homebuying, but so far the market is showing 'surprising resilience' Berkshire Hathaway's profits double as shareholders gather for the annual meeting in Omaha (Associated Press) Bankrupt carrier Spirit Airlines ceased operations Saturday, the industry's first closure linked to the Iran war. If Spirit Airlines shuts down, travel chaos could ramp up. Here's how to protect your summer travel plans. The S&P 500 and Nasdaq jumped to record highs as the AI trade fueled a tech rally The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq advanced after hitting record highs as earnings rolled in Apple's earnings beat is part of an amazing trend AI developers are snapping up Mac minis, sparking a shortage that could drag on for months Apple beats earnings estimates on strong iPhone and China sales Dow jumps 750 points, S&P 500 and Nasdaq notch record highs to end the best month for stocks since 2020 The AI earnings bonanza is splitting investors Trump bets Hormuz blockade will break Iran before triggering a global crisis US stocks climb as economic updates, solid earnings roll in and Big Techs buoy AI hopes Nvidia has powered one third of the Mag 7's bull market gains Results from four Big Tech companies showed combined AI spending reaching an eye-popping $725 billion this year. Microsoft tops earnings estimates, says AI business up 123% year over year Meta stock falls despite earnings beat as AI spending plans spook investors Alphabet earnings top estimates on strong Google Cloud growth The Dow and S&P 500 slipped as oil surged, with Big Tech earnings on deck Powell will stay on as governor, says he has no choice amid legal attacks on Fed Powell holds what is expected to be his final press conference as chair after the Fed keeps rates steady Fed holds interest rates steady with no end to Iran war in sight Elon Musk testified again in the OpenAI trial, describing his behavior at the company and its nonprofit 'halo' A Senate committee confirmed Kevin Warsh, sending his nomination to be chairman of the Fed to the full Senate Stocks slipped at the open as investors awaited a Fed decision and Big Tech earnings The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq dropped as chip stocks sank and oil rose S&P 500 and Nasdaq sink, Dow rises as OpenAI-linked stocks falter and UAE exits OPEC The United Arab Emirates will leave OPEC+ effective May 1 The only number that matters for 'Magnificent 7' earnings this week The S&P 500 and Nasdaq notched fresh records, while oil edged higher as markets weighed Iran peace odds Gasoline prices are expected to turn higher as oil holds above $100 per barrel amid uncertainty over the US-Iran war US stocks open mixed as markets brace for a big week of Big Tech earnings. The rapid run-up in chip stocks has reignited the AI trade as the S&P 500 and Nasdaq sit at record highs. Americans are feeling less confident about their retirement savings. Here are some of the best ways to get started early. It is profit season again, and Big Oil is raking it in, both in Europe and in the U.S., as soaring oil and gas prices boost earnings. What they are not boosting, however, is production. Big Oil is signaling it has no plans to rearrange its priorities. Higher oil pricesdrovethe first-quarter adjusted earnings at Exxon above analyst estimates as the jump in prices more than offset lower oil and gas production in the Middle East and Kazakhstan. Chevron alsobeatanalyst expectations with its first-quarter net result, reporting a 4% rise in upstream earnings specifically. When might oil production and prices normalize? How are Big Oil companies prioritizing shareholder returns? Why aren't oil companies increasing production despite higher profits? What impact is the Middle East crisis having? BPreporteda sharp rebound in first-quarter earnings, with its underlying replacement cost profit more than doubling from the previous quarter, thanks to stronger trading. TotalEnergiesbookeda 29% annual increase in profits, with the figure also representing a 41% on the final quarter of 2025. The French major also cited strong trading results as the driver of its quarterly results. What none of these companies has done, however, is commit to any substantial increase in oil production to offset the supply temporarily lost due to the war in the Middle East. Instead, they reaffirmed their priorities focusing on shareholder return, debt reduction, and capital discipline—even with a global oil supply shortfall of more than 10 million barrels daily. Related: China Orders Refiners to Ignore U.S. Sanctions on Key Iranian Oil Buyers Chevron returned $6 billion to shareholders during the first quarter, including $3.5 billion in dividends and $2.5 billion in buybacks. Exxon boasted one-year total shareholder return growth of 48%, with distributions totaling $9.2 billion. BP left its dividend and capital expenditure plans for the year unchanged despite the substantial change in prices. TotalEnergies said it would buy back $1.5 billion in stock during the second quarter. Big Oil, in other words, is sticking to the strategy it developed during the last lean-time part of the industry cycle. Big Oil is not biting, no matter how strong the temptation to respond to the Middle East supply shortage and avoid demand destruction, which is already starting to happen, anyway. In an overview of the state of the industry, the Wall Street Journal last weeknotedoil prices had gone up by as much as 80% since the start of 2025, and yet the biggest players in oil and gas had no intention of changing their spending plans for the year. The publication cited the chief executive of ConocoPhillips as saying, “The macro environment remains volatile and pretty impossible to predict. Amid such uncertainty, it’s critical our priorities remain steadfast. They are clear, consistent, and they are durable.” Conoco’s Ryan Lance certainly has a point: in such turbulent times that many are now calling unprecedented, and indeed, they are, stability is a much sought-after commodity, especially among energy investors. The Middle East crisis has made many governments double down on alternative sources of energy to replace lost barrels of oil and LNG cargoes, potentially casting a shadow over the future prospects of hydrocarbon demand. At the same time, the crisis has highlighted just how vital hydrocarbons remain for the literal functioning of human civilization. The crisis has spread well beyond oil and gas themselves and into scores of industries that depend on them for feedstocks to produce anything from fertilizers to electronics. Oil and gas, in other words, remain irreplaceable—and yet demand is under threat by the supply disruption. No wonder, then, that Chevron’s Mike Wirth summed up what seems to be the dominant sentiment among industry executives as follows: “We could hit the gas and begin to grow again,” Wirth said at the presentation of the company’s first-quarter results. “But I don’t know what the future looks like.” The most immediate question right now is, of course, when the Strait of Hormuz will reopen for regular traffic. A month ago, there was a lot more optimism about a swift end to the hostilities between the U.S. and Israel, and Iran. Now, nobody knows. Yet energy executives have repeatedly noted that even if traffic resumes tomorrow, it would take a couple of months for flows to normalize and prices to decline—and they may remain permanently higher. Exxon’s Darren Woods pointed this out at the company’s first-quarter presentation. He suggested assurances would be necessary that oil and gas flows via the Persian Gulf will remain uninterrupted for prices to deflate. Until then, it seems, Big Oil will not lift a finger to ramp up production outside the companies’ pre-war plans that mostly included modest production growth in places such as the Permian and, for Exxon, Guyana. Meanwhile, however, Big Oil isreturningto Canada’s oil patch in what could be a sign of optimism for the future prospects of oil and gas—especially gas—demand. The industry remains cautious, but with an eye on a production boost as soon as market conditions are deemed suitable for such a move. By Irina Slav for Oilprice.com More Top Reads From Oilprice.com TTF Futures Swing From Loss to Gain After Iran Rejects Trump's Hormuz Plan $125 Oil Could Tip Global Economy Into Recession UAE: OPEC Exit 'Not Directed Against Anyone' Oilprice Intelligencebrings you the signals before they become front-page news. This is the same expert analysis read by veteran traders and political advisors. Get it free, twice a week, and you'll always know why the market is moving before everyone else. You get the geopolitical intelligence, the hidden inventory data, and the market whispers that move billions - and we'll send you $389 in premium energy intelligence, on us, just for subscribing. Join 400,000+ readers today.Get access immediately by clicking here. Weʼre unable to load stories right now. Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Sign in to access your portfolio