Title: Top U.S. oil producer declares ‘green’ light on drilling for more oil amid Iran war
Date: 2026-05-04 22:05
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/sectors/energy/articles/top-u-oil-producer-declares-220515614.html?.tsrc=rss

Oops, something went wrong Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Spirit Airlines is gone. Here are the low-cost airlines filling the gap. Court documents show Musk warned OpenAI execs they would become 'the most hated men in America' days before the trial began Palantir beats earnings expectations, with revenue rising 85% on booming US business Dow, S&P 500, Nasdaq drop, oil surges as Middle East attacks escalate GameStop’s CEO dodged questions on funding the deal, leaving investors uneasy Dow sags while S&P 500, Nasdaq waver as Hormuz tensions rise Why trade deficits under Trump are so difficult to understand (and so easy to spin) Buying record highs looks riskier in the Nasdaq and Russell 2000 than in the broader market Would a gas tax holiday lower prices? What drivers should know. Wall Street sees more market gains as strong earnings fuel the AI trade The April jobs report and more major first quarter results await investors this week. April added roughly $1.2 trillion to Alphabet’s market value, or just over 50 times Google’s IPO valuation. Toto Wolff on Mercedes F1's dominant start, the 'outstanding' Kimi Antonelli, and why vulnerability is a leader's 'superpower' The average cost of college in 2026 (and how to pay for it) Network shakeups hit Medicare Advantage, forcing retirees to pay up or find new care Jerome Powell's Fed years were an everything rally The Iran War almost upended spring homebuying, but so far the market is showing 'surprising resilience' Berkshire Hathaway's profits double as shareholders gather for the annual meeting in Omaha (Associated Press) Bankrupt carrier Spirit Airlines ceased operations Saturday, the industry's first closure linked to the Iran war. If Spirit Airlines shuts down, travel chaos could ramp up. Here's how to protect your summer travel plans. The S&P 500 and Nasdaq jumped to record highs as the AI trade fueled a tech rally The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq advanced after hitting record highs as earnings rolled in Apple's earnings beat is part of an amazing trend AI developers are snapping up Mac minis, sparking a shortage that could drag on for months Apple beats earnings estimates on strong iPhone and China sales Dow jumps 750 points, S&P 500 and Nasdaq notch record highs to end the best month for stocks since 2020 The AI earnings bonanza is splitting investors Trump bets Hormuz blockade will break Iran before triggering a global crisis US stocks climb as economic updates, solid earnings roll in and Big Techs buoy AI hopes Nvidia has powered one third of the Mag 7's bull market gains Results from four Big Tech companies showed combined AI spending reaching an eye-popping $725 billion this year. Microsoft tops earnings estimates, says AI business up 123% year over year Meta stock falls despite earnings beat as AI spending plans spook investors Alphabet earnings top estimates on strong Google Cloud growth The Dow and S&P 500 slipped as oil surged, with Big Tech earnings on deck Powell will stay on as governor, says he has no choice amid legal attacks on Fed Powell holds what is expected to be his final press conference as chair after the Fed keeps rates steady Fed holds interest rates steady with no end to Iran war in sight Elon Musk testified again in the OpenAI trial, describing his behavior at the company and its nonprofit 'halo' A Senate committee confirmed Kevin Warsh, sending his nomination to be chairman of the Fed to the full Senate Stocks slipped at the open as investors awaited a Fed decision and Big Tech earnings The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq dropped as chip stocks sank and oil rose S&P 500 and Nasdaq sink, Dow rises as OpenAI-linked stocks falter and UAE exits OPEC The United Arab Emirates will leave OPEC+ effective May 1 The only number that matters for 'Magnificent 7' earnings this week The S&P 500 and Nasdaq notched fresh records, while oil edged higher as markets weighed Iran peace odds Gasoline prices are expected to turn higher as oil holds above $100 per barrel amid uncertainty over the US-Iran war US stocks open mixed as markets brace for a big week of Big Tech earnings. The rapid run-up in chip stocks has reignited the AI trade as the S&P 500 and Nasdaq sit at record highs. Americans are feeling less confident about their retirement savings. Here are some of the best ways to get started early. A top oil and gas producer in West Texas’ booming Permian Basin declared a “green” light for the reluctant U.S. energy sector to start churning out more volumes amid the ongoing Iran war and sky-high crude prices. Midland, Texas-based Diamondback Energy—the third-largest Permian player afterExxon Mobiland Chevron—said it is adding both fracking (hydraulic fracturing) crews and drilling rigs to West Texas. Large oil producers have hesitated to make long-term capital decisions based on a potentially short-term war. But the conflict is dragging on, and the ripple effects of higher prices will last for many months after it eventually ends. The U.S. benchmark for oil was $105 per barrel on May 4—an 85% increase since the beginning of the year. How does Diamondback compare to other Permian producers? What is Diamondback's updated production guidance? What triggered Diamondback Energy to increase oil production? How is Diamondback expanding its drilling operations? Diamondback, a bellwether for the U.S. oil industry,launched a “stoplight” system a year agowhen it called for an approaching “red light” and said U.S. shale oil production had likely “peaked” amid President Donald Trump’s tariff war and a jump in OPEC production. A year later, OPEC is bottlenecked because of the effective closure of the Strait of Hormuz through which 20% of the world’s oil and liquefied natural gas typically flows. “While our ‘stoplight’ analogy for the macro environment served its purpose over the last year, we are going to put it on the sidelines for now as the light has turned green, and Diamondback is well-positioned to respond to the current macro environment,” said Diamondback CEO Kaes Van’t Hof on Monday in a letter to shareholders. Diamondback said its Permian oil production averaged 521,000 barrels per day in the first quarter, which was above even the high point of its guidance at 512,000 barrels. Diamondback said it will continue to churn out 520,000 barrels per day or more through the rest of the year. The company’s midpoint guidance for the year previously was 505,000 barrels. “Prices for physical delivery of crude oil and refined products have increased even further, with some regions around the world already seeing shortages and demand destruction,” Van’t Hof wrote. “Therefore, we believe there is a legitimate supply-demand imbalance and that the associated price signal is the catalyst to begin to grow production. “Because of our positioning, our preparation and this price signal, we are bringing incremental barrels to the market immediately,” he continued. Last year, Diamondback cut its drilling rigs from 17 rigs to 13 amid the approaching “red light.” Having operated 15 rigs early this year, Van’t Hof said the company will now grow to 17 or 18 rigs. As for its well completions—or fracking—crews, Diamondback will go from four to five crews. An initial focus is on fracking previously drilled oil wells, called DUCs (drilled but uncompleted), to quickly hike oil output. But Diamondback is adding more drilling rigs to replenish activity and build its DUCs back up. Thus far in the industry, the overall rig count has remained relatively flat since the war began. Some private companies have increased drilling and fracking activity, such asContinental Resources, but the bigger publicly traded players have maintained their previously set capital spending plans thus far. However, Diamondback has decided to hike its 2026 capex incrementally from $3.75 billion to $3.9 billion. Including natural gas production, Diamondback plans to churn out at least 972,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day this year, up from its previous midpoint guidance of 944,000 barrels. That places Diamondback just behind Chevron, which is maintaining output at just over 1 million barrels of oil equivalent daily. The far-and-away Permian leader, Exxon, was already planning to grow from 1.7 million barrels daily to 1.8 million barrels this year—eventually hitting 2.5 million barrels by 2030. This story was originally featured onFortune.com Weʼre unable to load stories right now. Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Sign in to access your portfolio