Title: ExxonMobil vs. Chevron: One of These Energy Stocks Is a Much Better Dividend Buy
Date: 2026-05-03 11:35
URL: https://www.fool.com/investing/2026/05/03/exxonmobil-vs-chevron-one-of-these-energy-stocks-i/?.tsrc=rss

Exxon and Chevron are similar in many ways, but one big difference will matter to dividend investors. In some ways,ExxonMobil(XOM+0.61%)andChevron(CVX+0.87%)could be viewed as interchangeable energy investments. Exxon and its $625 billion market is a bigger company, but Chevron and its $375 billion market cap isn't far behind. The most notable difference is the dividend, which is why income seekers will probably want to go with Chevron right now. Here's what you need to know. Exxon and Chevron are both integrated energy companies, which means they own assets across the entireenergy value chain, from the upstream (energy production) through the midstream (pipelines) and all the way to the downstream (chemical and refining). Their portfolios are also geographically diverse, with assets spread across the globe. This diversification helps to soften the swings that are normal in the energy patch. Image source: Getty Images. On top of that, Exxon and Chevron both have rock-solid balance sheets. At the end of 2025, Exxon's debt-to-equity ratio was roughly 0.2x while Chevron's was about 0.25x. Those debt-to-equity ratios are low on an absolute basis and rank as the two lowest in the integrated energy peer group. This gives each company the financial leeway to add leverage during industry downturns so they can support their businesses and dividends until oil prices recover. With impressive business foundations, Exxon and Chevron are both great choices for investors looking to add energy exposure to their portfolios. Andfor dividend investors, each stands out for the decades' worth of annual dividend increases it has delivered. However, if you are looking to buy one of these energy giants right now, Chevron should probably be the one you pick. This Card Just Received a Rare 5-Star Rating Our team of credit card pros don’t just recommend this card—they actually use it. Motley Fool Money calls it a top pick for a reason. The average energy stock yields around 2.3%. Exxon's yield is 2.7%, which is relatively attractive. However, Chevron's yield is 3.7%, which is one percentage point higher. In percentage terms, Chevron is offering investors 37% more income than Exxon right now. That's a giant increase in the income your portfolio will generate for you. To be fair, Chevron just completed a big merger (Hess), and it has operations in politically turbulent Venezuela. There's more execution risk to consider. However, that risk isn't so great as to dissuade long-term investors from buying the stock. If you are looking for an energy stock and want to maximize the income you generate without taking on excessive risk, Chevron should probably win out over Exxon today.     Before you buy stock inExxonMobil, consider this: The Motley FoolStock Advisoranalyst team just identified what they believe are the10 best stocksfor investors to buy now… andExxonMobilwasn’t one of them. The 10 stocks that made the cut could produce monster returns in the coming years. Consider whenNetflixmade this list on December 17, 2004... if you invested $1,000 at the time of our recommendation,you’d have $496,473!*Or whenNvidiamade this list on April 15, 2005... if you invested $1,000 at the time of our recommendation,you’d have $1,216,605!* Now, it’s worth notingStock Advisor’s total average return is968% — a market-crushing outperformance compared to202%for the S&P 500. Don't miss the latest top 10 list, available withStock Advisor, and join an investing community built by individual investors for individual investors. See the 10 stocks › *Stock Advisor returns as of May 5, 2026.  Reuben Gregg Brewerhas no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Chevron. The Motley Fool has adisclosure policy. This tech could reach $80 trillion. Imagine a technology worth over55 Metas. What in the world could be worth 55 Metas? The answer is a radical tech breakthrough that our experts think is transforming every walk of life. And this giant leap forward has many on Wall Street very excited. Continue ›  *Average returns of all recommendations since inception. Cost basis and return based on previous market day close. This Card Just Received a Rare 5-Star Rating Our team of credit card pros don’t just recommend this card—they actually use it. Motley Fool Money calls it a top pick for a reason. Invest better with The Motley Fool. Get stock recommendations, portfolio guidance, and more from The Motley Fool's premium services. Making the world smarter, happier, and richer. ©1995-2026The Motley Fool. All rights reserved. Market data powered byXigniteandPolygon.io. About The Motley Fool Our Services Around the Globe Free Tools Affiliates & Friends