Title: 3 Things to Keep in Mind If You Want to Build a Sustainable Investment Portfolio
Date: 2026-05-04 00:35
URL: https://www.fool.com/investing/2026/05/03/3-things-to-keep-in-mind-if-you-want-to-build-a-su/?.tsrc=rss

It is easy to get caught up in short-term market moves, but you really need to think long-term. Wall Street is an echo chamber that seems focused on getting investors to think only about the short term. That's not a sustainable investment approach. You need to think in decades, not days. There's no better example of that right now than the geopolitical conflict in the Middle East. A look atExxonMobil(XOM+0.61%)can provide you with three examples you should apply to your entire investment portfolio. Exxon will benefit from rising oil and gas prices, just as otherenergy stockswill. However, management isn't losing sight of the real goal: surviving and growing over the long term. For example, the company spent $26.4 billion on capital expenditures in 2025, as it looks to focus on its best assets. By 2030, Exxon expects what it calls "advantaged" assets to make up 65% of its production. Image source: Getty Images. Exxon will be happy to benefit from the windfall provided by high oil prices in 2026, but that 2030 goal is still years away. And management isn't going to stop reaching for that longer-term goal just because oil prices are high right now. In fact, it is likely to use the outsize profits to support that long-term goal. Like Exxon, you need to think long-term when making your investment decisions. Another key part of Exxon's business is its integrated approach. It has exposure across the entire energy value chain, helping soften the impact of swings in the inherently volatile energy sector. It is also geographically diversified, so that events in one region don't derail the entire business. That's how the company has managed to increase its dividend annually for decades, despite the often-dramatic swings to which the energy sector is prone. This Card Just Received a Rare 5-Star Rating Our team of credit card pros don’t just recommend this card—they actually use it. Motley Fool Money calls it a top pick for a reason. You should diversify your portfolio, too. For example, buying only oil stocks while oil prices are high would be a very bad choice. Eventually, oil prices and oil stocks will fall. A better option would be to diversify your portfolio across the entire market. Your mix should probably include an energy component, perhaps even Exxon specifically, but energy should only be one part of a larger whole. Lastly, Exxon understands that it needs a strong financial foundation to navigate the ups and downs it will face in the energy sector. Notably, it ended 2025 with an industry-leading debt-to-equity ratio of 0.2x. Having a strong balance sheet gives Exxon the flexibility to add leverage during industry downturns so it can continue to support its business and dividend until the energy market recovers. When our analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all,Stock Advisor’stotal average return is968%*— a market-crushing outperformance compared to202%for the S&P 500. They just revealed what they believe are the10 best stocksfor investors to buy right now,available when you joinStock Advisor. *Stock Advisor returns as of May 5, 2026. You should take the same care with your finances, so a bad market won't force you into a precarious financial position. Notably, avoid leverage, particularly margin debt, so you don't have to sell assets in bear markets. And have a financial safety net (perhaps three to six months' worth of living expenses in cash), so you can handle unexpected events in relative stride. The best time to fortify your finances is during the good years, knowing that the bulwark you build will support you through the inevitable bad years. Exxon is an incredibly well-run company. It thinks long-term because it knows that short-term trends come and go. It is diversified because it understands that putting all of your eggs in one basket is a huge risk. And it has long focused on having a strong financial foundation, because that gives it the wherewithal to survive hard times. All of that may entice you to buy Exxon for your portfolio, but don't overlook the lessons that Exxon's business has to offer for your personal finances.     Before you buy stock inExxonMobil, consider this: The Motley FoolStock Advisoranalyst team just identified what they believe are the10 best stocksfor investors to buy now… andExxonMobilwasn’t one of them.Generational wealth is rarely built on a single hot stock pick — it’s built on a resilient, diversified foundation designed to compound for decades. If your goal is to pursue true generational wealth, you’ll want to see the 10 stocks our analysts believe are the best to buy now. Consider whenNetflixmade this list on December 17, 2004... if you invested $1,000 at the time of our recommendation,you’d have $496,473!*Or whenNvidiamade this list on April 15, 2005... if you invested $1,000 at the time of our recommendation,you’d have $1,216,605!* That’s the power of choosing a handful of potential long‑term winners and letting time do the heavy lifting. Today,Stock Advisor’s total average return is968% — a market-crushing outperformance compared to202%for the S&P 500. If your goal is to start building true generational wealth, don’t miss the latest top 10 list available withStock Advisor, and take your next step toward a portfolio that can benefit not just you, but your family for years to come. See the 10 stocks › *Stock Advisor returns as of May 5, 2026.  Reuben Gregg Brewerhas no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has adisclosure policy. This tech could reach $80 trillion. Imagine a technology worth over55 Metas. What in the world could be worth 55 Metas? The answer is a radical tech breakthrough that our experts think is transforming every walk of life. And this giant leap forward has many on Wall Street very excited. Continue ›  *Average returns of all recommendations since inception. Cost basis and return based on previous market day close. This Card Just Received a Rare 5-Star Rating Our team of credit card pros don’t just recommend this card—they actually use it. Motley Fool Money calls it a top pick for a reason. Invest better with The Motley Fool. Get stock recommendations, portfolio guidance, and more from The Motley Fool's premium services. Making the world smarter, happier, and richer. ©1995-2026The Motley Fool. All rights reserved. Market data powered byXigniteandPolygon.io. About The Motley Fool Our Services Around the Globe Free Tools Affiliates & Friends