Title: Spirit Ends Operations After White House Bailout Collapses
Date: 2026-05-02 15:09
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/economy/policy/articles/spirit-shuts-operations-white-house-072523393.html?.tsrc=rss

Oops, something went wrong Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Spirit Airlines is gone. Here are the low-cost airlines filling the gap. Court documents show Musk warned OpenAI execs they would become 'the most hated men in America' days before the trial began Palantir beats earnings expectations, with revenue rising 85% on booming US business Dow, S&P 500, Nasdaq drop, oil surges as Middle East attacks escalate GameStop’s CEO dodged questions on funding the deal, leaving investors uneasy Dow sags while S&P 500, Nasdaq waver as Hormuz tensions rise Why trade deficits under Trump are so difficult to understand (and so easy to spin) Buying record highs looks riskier in the Nasdaq and Russell 2000 than in the broader market Would a gas tax holiday lower prices? What drivers should know. Wall Street sees more market gains as strong earnings fuel the AI trade The April jobs report and more major first quarter results await investors this week. April added roughly $1.2 trillion to Alphabet’s market value, or just over 50 times Google’s IPO valuation. Toto Wolff on Mercedes F1's dominant start, the 'outstanding' Kimi Antonelli, and why vulnerability is a leader's 'superpower' The average cost of college in 2026 (and how to pay for it) Network shakeups hit Medicare Advantage, forcing retirees to pay up or find new care Jerome Powell's Fed years were an everything rally The Iran War almost upended spring homebuying, but so far the market is showing 'surprising resilience' Berkshire Hathaway's profits double as shareholders gather for the annual meeting in Omaha (Associated Press) Bankrupt carrier Spirit Airlines ceased operations Saturday, the industry's first closure linked to the Iran war. If Spirit Airlines shuts down, travel chaos could ramp up. Here's how to protect your summer travel plans. The S&P 500 and Nasdaq jumped to record highs as the AI trade fueled a tech rally The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq advanced after hitting record highs as earnings rolled in Apple's earnings beat is part of an amazing trend AI developers are snapping up Mac minis, sparking a shortage that could drag on for months Apple beats earnings estimates on strong iPhone and China sales Dow jumps 750 points, S&P 500 and Nasdaq notch record highs to end the best month for stocks since 2020 The AI earnings bonanza is splitting investors Trump bets Hormuz blockade will break Iran before triggering a global crisis US stocks climb as economic updates, solid earnings roll in and Big Techs buoy AI hopes Nvidia has powered one third of the Mag 7's bull market gains Results from four Big Tech companies showed combined AI spending reaching an eye-popping $725 billion this year. Microsoft tops earnings estimates, says AI business up 123% year over year Meta stock falls despite earnings beat as AI spending plans spook investors Alphabet earnings top estimates on strong Google Cloud growth The Dow and S&P 500 slipped as oil surged, with Big Tech earnings on deck Powell will stay on as governor, says he has no choice amid legal attacks on Fed Powell holds what is expected to be his final press conference as chair after the Fed keeps rates steady Fed holds interest rates steady with no end to Iran war in sight Elon Musk testified again in the OpenAI trial, describing his behavior at the company and its nonprofit 'halo' A Senate committee confirmed Kevin Warsh, sending his nomination to be chairman of the Fed to the full Senate Stocks slipped at the open as investors awaited a Fed decision and Big Tech earnings The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq dropped as chip stocks sank and oil rose S&P 500 and Nasdaq sink, Dow rises as OpenAI-linked stocks falter and UAE exits OPEC The United Arab Emirates will leave OPEC+ effective May 1 The only number that matters for 'Magnificent 7' earnings this week The S&P 500 and Nasdaq notched fresh records, while oil edged higher as markets weighed Iran peace odds Gasoline prices are expected to turn higher as oil holds above $100 per barrel amid uncertainty over the US-Iran war US stocks open mixed as markets brace for a big week of Big Tech earnings. The rapid run-up in chip stocks has reignited the AI trade as the S&P 500 and Nasdaq sit at record highs. Americans are feeling less confident about their retirement savings. Here are some of the best ways to get started early. (Bloomberg) -- Spirit Aviation Holdings Inc. is winding down operations after the troubled US discount carrier buckled under the weight of surging fuel prices and a government bailout dangled by President Donald Trump fell through. Most Read from Bloomberg Supertanker Appears to Have Crossed the Strait of Hormuz Beijing Tells China Firms to Ignore US Sanctions on Refiners World’s Largest Container Carrier Plans Route Avoiding Hormuz Philippines Says Thousands Evacuated as Mayon Volcano Erupts Trump Casts Doubts on Iran Peace Proposal as Details Emerge All Spirit flights have been canceled and passengers have been advised not to go to the airport after the airline failed to secure a deal with the Trump administration for funding. “Sustaining the business required hundreds of millions of additional dollars of liquidity that Spirit simply does not have and could not procure,” said Dave Davis, Spirit’s chief executive officer, in a statement on Saturday. “This is tremendously disappointing and not the outcome any of us wanted.” The US government had been considering providing Spirit with $500 million in exchange for warrants to purchase up to 90% of the airline once it emerged from bankruptcy. But key creditors wouldn’t agree to the deal, which would have given the government higher priority than other lenders. Transportation Secretary Sean Duffy told reporters Saturday at Newark Liberty International Airport that the administration was “not surprised by what happened,” saying officials were prepared for the potential decisions Spirit would make. “In the end, this was a creditor issue,” he said. “They have the final say of whether they want to do a deal with the government.” As the government rescue hung in the balance, a group of lenders including Ken Griffin’s Citadel resisted terms they viewed as likely to impair their claims and recoveries, people familiar with the matter said this week. The group made a counterproposal, according to one of the people. Earlier Saturday, Duffy announced measures to support Spirit ticket holders and employees, and said several carriers including United Airlines Holdings Inc., Delta Air Lines Inc., American Airlines Group Inc., Southwest Airlines Co. and JetBlue Airways Corp. agreed to cap prices or reduce fares for customers impacted by the shutdown. “We’ve activated our airline partners to ensure passengers are not stranded, communities maintain route access, fares do not skyrocket, and Spirit’s workforce is connected to new job opportunities,” Duffy said in a statement. The airline, which has major hubs in Fort Lauderdale and Orlando in Florida and in Las Vegas, has struggled for years but its problems were compounded by rising jet fuel prices prompted by the US-Israeli war on Iran, now into its third month. The conflict has largely shuttered the Strait of Hormuz, a key passageway for energy flows, leading oil and gas prices to spike. Bailing out Spirit, an airline dating back to the 1980s, would have been Trump’s latest attempt to intervene in a beleaguered US company. While a decision to take a 10% stake in Intel Corp. has paid off so far, the US chipmaker wasn’t on the brink of collapse as Spirit was. US Commerce Secretary Howard Lutnick was a central player in both the Intel and Spirit talks. The Spirit rescue discussions followed a tumultuous stretch for the airline. The company filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in August, the second time in less than a year. Prior to the start of the Iran war in late February, the airline had been expected to exit bankruptcy over the summer after reaching an agreement with creditors on a plan to trim billions of dollars in debt and reduce the cost of its fleet. Higher fuel costs instead put the carrier at risk of liquidation. The Trump administration has sought to blame former President Joe Biden’s administration for Spirit’s troubles, noting that his Justice Department sued to stop a merger between Spirit and JetBlue on antitrust grounds. That deal was eventually blocked by a federal judge in 2024. Spirit isn’t the only airline that’s suffering as a result of the conflict in the Middle East. CEOs of other budget carriers met with Duffy and other senior government officials on April 21 to discuss the challenges they face. The Association of Value Airlines, which represents low-cost carriers including Frontier Group Holdings Inc. and Allegiant Travel Co., has asked the government for $2.5 billion to help its members combat increasing jet fuel prices. Duffy on Saturday threw cold water on the idea, saying he doesn’t think it’s necessary for the government to provide that lifeline. Trump said on April 23 he was considering having the US purchase Spirit. Talks between the government and the airline ended without a deal, though the timeline is murky. Trump said Friday he’d sent a final proposal to the carrier following reports that Spirit was laying the groundwork to cease operations. But a person familiar with the matter said the White House told Lutnick to inform the airline a deal wasn’t going to happen on Thursday. The person didn’t know if some sort of revised offer was made after that. Plans for the administration to intervene to rescue Spirit drew backlash from lawmakers on both sides of the aisle. Senator Ted Cruz, the Republican chair of the Senate Commerce Committee, called the prospect of a government bailout for Spirit a “TERRIBLE idea” in a social media post when reports about the discussions first emerged. Democratic Senator Elizabeth Warren also questioned the potential use of government money. “Donald Trump’s war with Iran caused the sky-high fuel prices that finally did Spirit Airlines in,” she wrote on April 22 on X. “What do the American people get out of this taxpayer bailout?” --With assistance from Josh Wingrove. (Updates with US transportation secretary’s comments starting in fifth paragraph.) Most Read from Bloomberg Businessweek America’s Go-To Autism Therapy Is Also the Most Controversial It’s Boating Season, But Only If You Can Afford Fuel Running America’s Second-Busiest Airport in Turbulent Times The NBA Draft Is Bad for Business Ready or Not, the AI Phones Are Coming ©2026 Bloomberg L.P. Weʼre unable to load stories right now. Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Sign in to access your portfolio