Title: Spirit Airlines is no more ... and now the blame game begins
Date: 2026-05-04 15:50
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/article/spirit-airlines-is-no-more--and-now-the-blame-game-begins-155056781.html?.tsrc=rss

Oops, something went wrong Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Spirit Airlines is gone. Here are the low-cost airlines filling the gap. Court documents show Musk warned OpenAI execs they would become 'the most hated men in America' days before the trial began Palantir beats earnings expectations, with revenue rising 85% on booming US business Dow, S&P 500, Nasdaq drop, oil surges as Middle East attacks escalate GameStop’s CEO dodged questions on funding the deal, leaving investors uneasy Dow sags while S&P 500, Nasdaq waver as Hormuz tensions rise Why trade deficits under Trump are so difficult to understand (and so easy to spin) Buying record highs looks riskier in the Nasdaq and Russell 2000 than in the broader market Would a gas tax holiday lower prices? What drivers should know. Wall Street sees more market gains as strong earnings fuel the AI trade The April jobs report and more major first quarter results await investors this week. April added roughly $1.2 trillion to Alphabet’s market value, or just over 50 times Google’s IPO valuation. Toto Wolff on Mercedes F1's dominant start, the 'outstanding' Kimi Antonelli, and why vulnerability is a leader's 'superpower' The average cost of college in 2026 (and how to pay for it) Network shakeups hit Medicare Advantage, forcing retirees to pay up or find new care Jerome Powell's Fed years were an everything rally The Iran War almost upended spring homebuying, but so far the market is showing 'surprising resilience' Berkshire Hathaway's profits double as shareholders gather for the annual meeting in Omaha (Associated Press) Bankrupt carrier Spirit Airlines ceased operations Saturday, the industry's first closure linked to the Iran war. If Spirit Airlines shuts down, travel chaos could ramp up. Here's how to protect your summer travel plans. The S&P 500 and Nasdaq jumped to record highs as the AI trade fueled a tech rally The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq advanced after hitting record highs as earnings rolled in Apple's earnings beat is part of an amazing trend AI developers are snapping up Mac minis, sparking a shortage that could drag on for months Apple beats earnings estimates on strong iPhone and China sales Dow jumps 750 points, S&P 500 and Nasdaq notch record highs to end the best month for stocks since 2020 The AI earnings bonanza is splitting investors Trump bets Hormuz blockade will break Iran before triggering a global crisis US stocks climb as economic updates, solid earnings roll in and Big Techs buoy AI hopes Nvidia has powered one third of the Mag 7's bull market gains Results from four Big Tech companies showed combined AI spending reaching an eye-popping $725 billion this year. Microsoft tops earnings estimates, says AI business up 123% year over year Meta stock falls despite earnings beat as AI spending plans spook investors Alphabet earnings top estimates on strong Google Cloud growth The Dow and S&P 500 slipped as oil surged, with Big Tech earnings on deck Powell will stay on as governor, says he has no choice amid legal attacks on Fed Powell holds what is expected to be his final press conference as chair after the Fed keeps rates steady Fed holds interest rates steady with no end to Iran war in sight Elon Musk testified again in the OpenAI trial, describing his behavior at the company and its nonprofit 'halo' A Senate committee confirmed Kevin Warsh, sending his nomination to be chairman of the Fed to the full Senate Stocks slipped at the open as investors awaited a Fed decision and Big Tech earnings The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq dropped as chip stocks sank and oil rose S&P 500 and Nasdaq sink, Dow rises as OpenAI-linked stocks falter and UAE exits OPEC The United Arab Emirates will leave OPEC+ effective May 1 The only number that matters for 'Magnificent 7' earnings this week The S&P 500 and Nasdaq notched fresh records, while oil edged higher as markets weighed Iran peace odds Gasoline prices are expected to turn higher as oil holds above $100 per barrel amid uncertainty over the US-Iran war US stocks open mixed as markets brace for a big week of Big Tech earnings. The rapid run-up in chip stocks has reignited the AI trade as the S&P 500 and Nasdaq sit at record highs. Americans are feeling less confident about their retirement savings. Here are some of the best ways to get started early. Budget airline Spirit Airlines (FLYYQ) is no more, and the fallout is just beginning. After years of financial turbulence, Spirit Airlines officially ceased all operations at 3 a.m. ET Saturday night, marking the end of one of America's most recognizable budget carriers. The airline's collapse came after a blocked merger attempt, a bankruptcy filing, and a failed government bailout. Spirit passengers holding tickets were notified that their flights would not operate, with Spirit directing customers to seek refunds through the bankruptcy process — a slow and uncertain process. Spirit's full cessation meant no automatic rebooking on partner carriers. Stranded passengers were largely on their own, though other airlines, such as United (UAL), American (AAL), and Delta (DAL),offered price-capped faresfor Spirit passengers. Spirit's downfall was long in the making. The airline had long operated on razor-thin margins as an ultra-low-cost carrier, relying on high passenger volume and various fees to offset low fares. When JetBlue (JBLU) proposed a $3.8 billion acquisition of Spirit in 2022, many saw it as a lifeline — a deal that would allow Spirit's business to survive with economies of scale provided by a merger with JetBlue’s low-fare operations. But the Biden administration argued the merger would eliminate a key source of low-cost competition and harm consumers, and sued to block the deal. In January 2024, a federal judge sided with the government, ruling the merger anticompetitive, and JetBlue walked away. With that door closed and Spirit unable to restructure its debt or secure a new partner, the airline filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in November 2024. The US-Israeli war with Iran hastened Spirit’s demise, as surging fuel prices crushed Spirit’s margins, cash position, and ability to operate. A White House-orchestrated $500 million bailout fell through as well, as Spirit’s bondholders balked at being placed behind the government’s debt claims. Over the weekend, the blame game heightened. Transportation Secretary Sean Duffy directly blamed the Biden DOJ's decision to block the JetBlue merger for Spirit's ultimate collapse. "The Joe Biden-Pete Buttigieg administration and DOJ tanked that deal," Duffysaidon ABC’s "This Week." "Immediately after that, they filed for bankruptcy." Duffy also ruled out abailout for low-cost carrierslike Frontier and Avelo. Critics countered that Spirit's underlying business model was unsustainable regardless of the merger, and that the airline was on a troubled trajectory long before the DOJ intervened. Even JetBlue’s founder reportedly said the airlinewas in trouble, suggesting a merger could have backfired. Spirit — in addition to not hedging fuel costs and pushing the limits with aggressive pricing — has itself to blame for its demise, as well as deals it did not pursue: Spirit bailed on a merger with Frontier Airlines (ULCC) in order to pursue a deal with JetBlue. As Frontier is smaller than JetBlue, a deal with Frontier may have passed antitrust muster. What caused Spirit Airlines to cease all operations? What refund options do stranded Spirit passengers have? How did the blocked JetBlue merger impact Spirit's survival? Who is being blamed for Spirit Airlines' collapse? Former Biden assistant AG Jonathan Kanter suggested just that this morning in an interview withCNBC, claiming a Spirit-Frontier merger would have been approved. What the blame game doesn’t do is revive Spirit Airlines, meaning Americans suffering through an affordability crisis lost one more option for budget travel. Pras Subramanian is Lead Transportation Reporter for Yahoo Finance. You can follow him onXand onInstagram. Click here for the latest technology news that will impact the stock market Read the latest financial and business news from Yahoo Finance Weʼre unable to load stories right now. Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Sign in to access your portfolio