Title: US airlines step up as Spirit winds down
Date: 2026-05-03 02:44
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/economy/policy/articles/spirit-airlines-begins-wind-down-082751062.html?.tsrc=rss

Oops, something went wrong Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Spirit Airlines is gone. Here are the low-cost airlines filling the gap. Court documents show Musk warned OpenAI execs they would become 'the most hated men in America' days before the trial began Palantir beats earnings expectations, with revenue rising 85% on booming US business Dow, S&P 500, Nasdaq drop, oil surges as Middle East attacks escalate GameStop’s CEO dodged questions on funding the deal, leaving investors uneasy Dow sags while S&P 500, Nasdaq waver as Hormuz tensions rise Why trade deficits under Trump are so difficult to understand (and so easy to spin) Buying record highs looks riskier in the Nasdaq and Russell 2000 than in the broader market Would a gas tax holiday lower prices? What drivers should know. Wall Street sees more market gains as strong earnings fuel the AI trade The April jobs report and more major first quarter results await investors this week. April added roughly $1.2 trillion to Alphabet’s market value, or just over 50 times Google’s IPO valuation. Toto Wolff on Mercedes F1's dominant start, the 'outstanding' Kimi Antonelli, and why vulnerability is a leader's 'superpower' The average cost of college in 2026 (and how to pay for it) Network shakeups hit Medicare Advantage, forcing retirees to pay up or find new care Jerome Powell's Fed years were an everything rally The Iran War almost upended spring homebuying, but so far the market is showing 'surprising resilience' Berkshire Hathaway's profits double as shareholders gather for the annual meeting in Omaha (Associated Press) Bankrupt carrier Spirit Airlines ceased operations Saturday, the industry's first closure linked to the Iran war. If Spirit Airlines shuts down, travel chaos could ramp up. Here's how to protect your summer travel plans. The S&P 500 and Nasdaq jumped to record highs as the AI trade fueled a tech rally The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq advanced after hitting record highs as earnings rolled in Apple's earnings beat is part of an amazing trend AI developers are snapping up Mac minis, sparking a shortage that could drag on for months Apple beats earnings estimates on strong iPhone and China sales Dow jumps 750 points, S&P 500 and Nasdaq notch record highs to end the best month for stocks since 2020 The AI earnings bonanza is splitting investors Trump bets Hormuz blockade will break Iran before triggering a global crisis US stocks climb as economic updates, solid earnings roll in and Big Techs buoy AI hopes Nvidia has powered one third of the Mag 7's bull market gains Results from four Big Tech companies showed combined AI spending reaching an eye-popping $725 billion this year. Microsoft tops earnings estimates, says AI business up 123% year over year Meta stock falls despite earnings beat as AI spending plans spook investors Alphabet earnings top estimates on strong Google Cloud growth The Dow and S&P 500 slipped as oil surged, with Big Tech earnings on deck Powell will stay on as governor, says he has no choice amid legal attacks on Fed Powell holds what is expected to be his final press conference as chair after the Fed keeps rates steady Fed holds interest rates steady with no end to Iran war in sight Elon Musk testified again in the OpenAI trial, describing his behavior at the company and its nonprofit 'halo' A Senate committee confirmed Kevin Warsh, sending his nomination to be chairman of the Fed to the full Senate Stocks slipped at the open as investors awaited a Fed decision and Big Tech earnings The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq dropped as chip stocks sank and oil rose S&P 500 and Nasdaq sink, Dow rises as OpenAI-linked stocks falter and UAE exits OPEC The United Arab Emirates will leave OPEC+ effective May 1 The only number that matters for 'Magnificent 7' earnings this week The S&P 500 and Nasdaq notched fresh records, while oil edged higher as markets weighed Iran peace odds Gasoline prices are expected to turn higher as oil holds above $100 per barrel amid uncertainty over the US-Iran war US stocks open mixed as markets brace for a big week of Big Tech earnings. The rapid run-up in chip stocks has reignited the AI trade as the S&P 500 and Nasdaq sit at record highs. Americans are feeling less confident about their retirement savings. Here are some of the best ways to get started early. US air carriers on Saturday mobilized to help passengers and crew members stranded by the overnight shutdown of Spirit Airlines, after the low-cost carrier's last-minute talks with creditors and the White House collapsed. Spirit, known for its bright yellow planes, succumbed to crushing fuel prices and announced in the early hours that it was "winding down its global operations, effective immediately," with all flights canceled and customer service no longer available. Other carriers -- including American, Delta, United and JetBlue -- moved quickly to scoop up Spirit's customers, offering what some dubbed "rescue fares" to those waking up with cancelled itineraries. "In just over 12 hours, United has helped Spirit customers book 14,000 tickets to get to where they need to be," United said in a statement on Saturday. Some airlines said they would increase the number of flights or schedule larger planes in and out of airports where Spirit had a significant presence. Carriers also sought to support marooned Spirit staff -- and hire them. Spirit has been in and out of bankruptcy since 2024, and the White House was recently considering a bailout. "The recent material increase in oil prices and other pressures on the business have significantly impacted Spirit's financial outlook," the company said in a statement. "With no additional funding available to the company, Spirit had no choice but to begin this wind-down." It has promised refunds. The company had nearly 7,500 employees at the end of last year, according to filings. Unions representing them slammed the failure to reach a deal. "The pain of this decision will not be felt in boardrooms. It will be felt by pilots, flight attendants, mechanics, dispatchers, and ground crews, and by the families and communities that depend on them," said the Air Line Pilots Association. - 'Like a dog on a bone' - US Transportation Secretary Sean Duffy scrambled to defend the position of President Donald Trump's administration as a rescue plan never materialized. "The president was like a dog on a bone trying to figure out a way to keep Spirit afloat," Duffy told a press conference Saturday at Newark Liberty International Airport in New Jersey. "In the end, this was a creditor issue. Again, they have the final say of whether they want to do a deal with the government," he added. "But also from the government's perspective, we oftentimes don't have a half a billion dollars laying around in a spare account that we can put into a bailout of an airline." Duffy blamed the administration of Trump's predecessor Joe Biden for blocking a proposed merger between Spirit and JetBlue in March 2024 -- and assured ticket holders that they would get refunds. - Changing plans - Florida resident Ramon, 60, said he had planned to visit family in Honduras this week. He and his son Kevin saw headlines in recent days about Spirit's woes and contacted the airline, but opted not to take a refund offer, as alternative flights were more expensive and there were no immediate signs that the airline would fold. "I was trying to go today on another airline, but it was like $1,000 a ticket," Ramon told AFP, asking only to be identified by his first name. The family now says they'll wait for the refund and book a flight in early June. - Fuel costs - Launched in 1992, Spirit Airlines became one of the first low-cost carriers in the United States. Between February 2025 and January 2026, it carried some 28 million passengers, according to government data. At the same time, it has been limping along since announcing bankruptcy in November 2024 and again in August 2025. In late February, Spirit said it had reached an "agreement in principle" to restructure its debts and that it expected to emerge from bankruptcy by early summer. Days later, the United States and Israel began bombing Iran, leading to the closure of the Strait of Hormuz, which sent jet fuel prices soaring. Hopes of a White House bailout began to fade last week as oil prices spiked and creditors were reportedly furious with the stake the government planned to take in the company. Bradley Akubuiro, a crisis management expert at Bully Pulpit International, said while fuel prices may have been the final nail in the coffin, Spirit was "already in a very difficult position." "The more lasting consequence is that one of the strongest sources of low-fare pressure in the US market is gone," Akubuiro told AFP. bur-pnb/sst/abs Weʼre unable to load stories right now. Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Sign in to access your portfolio