Title: Spirit Airlines ceases operations and US transportation secretary announces measures to help passengers
Date: 2026-05-02 16:06
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/sectors/energy/articles/spirit-airlines-prepares-cease-operations-153859973.html?.tsrc=rss

Oops, something went wrong Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Spirit Airlines is gone. Here are the low-cost airlines filling the gap. Court documents show Musk warned OpenAI execs they would become 'the most hated men in America' days before the trial began Palantir beats earnings expectations, with revenue rising 85% on booming US business Dow, S&P 500, Nasdaq drop, oil surges as Middle East attacks escalate GameStop’s CEO dodged questions on funding the deal, leaving investors uneasy Dow sags while S&P 500, Nasdaq waver as Hormuz tensions rise Why trade deficits under Trump are so difficult to understand (and so easy to spin) Buying record highs looks riskier in the Nasdaq and Russell 2000 than in the broader market Would a gas tax holiday lower prices? What drivers should know. Wall Street sees more market gains as strong earnings fuel the AI trade The April jobs report and more major first quarter results await investors this week. April added roughly $1.2 trillion to Alphabet’s market value, or just over 50 times Google’s IPO valuation. Toto Wolff on Mercedes F1's dominant start, the 'outstanding' Kimi Antonelli, and why vulnerability is a leader's 'superpower' The average cost of college in 2026 (and how to pay for it) Network shakeups hit Medicare Advantage, forcing retirees to pay up or find new care Jerome Powell's Fed years were an everything rally The Iran War almost upended spring homebuying, but so far the market is showing 'surprising resilience' Berkshire Hathaway's profits double as shareholders gather for the annual meeting in Omaha (Associated Press) Bankrupt carrier Spirit Airlines ceased operations Saturday, the industry's first closure linked to the Iran war. If Spirit Airlines shuts down, travel chaos could ramp up. Here's how to protect your summer travel plans. The S&P 500 and Nasdaq jumped to record highs as the AI trade fueled a tech rally The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq advanced after hitting record highs as earnings rolled in Apple's earnings beat is part of an amazing trend AI developers are snapping up Mac minis, sparking a shortage that could drag on for months Apple beats earnings estimates on strong iPhone and China sales Dow jumps 750 points, S&P 500 and Nasdaq notch record highs to end the best month for stocks since 2020 The AI earnings bonanza is splitting investors Trump bets Hormuz blockade will break Iran before triggering a global crisis US stocks climb as economic updates, solid earnings roll in and Big Techs buoy AI hopes Nvidia has powered one third of the Mag 7's bull market gains Results from four Big Tech companies showed combined AI spending reaching an eye-popping $725 billion this year. Microsoft tops earnings estimates, says AI business up 123% year over year Meta stock falls despite earnings beat as AI spending plans spook investors Alphabet earnings top estimates on strong Google Cloud growth The Dow and S&P 500 slipped as oil surged, with Big Tech earnings on deck Powell will stay on as governor, says he has no choice amid legal attacks on Fed Powell holds what is expected to be his final press conference as chair after the Fed keeps rates steady Fed holds interest rates steady with no end to Iran war in sight Elon Musk testified again in the OpenAI trial, describing his behavior at the company and its nonprofit 'halo' A Senate committee confirmed Kevin Warsh, sending his nomination to be chairman of the Fed to the full Senate Stocks slipped at the open as investors awaited a Fed decision and Big Tech earnings The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq dropped as chip stocks sank and oil rose S&P 500 and Nasdaq sink, Dow rises as OpenAI-linked stocks falter and UAE exits OPEC The United Arab Emirates will leave OPEC+ effective May 1 The only number that matters for 'Magnificent 7' earnings this week The S&P 500 and Nasdaq notched fresh records, while oil edged higher as markets weighed Iran peace odds Gasoline prices are expected to turn higher as oil holds above $100 per barrel amid uncertainty over the US-Iran war US stocks open mixed as markets brace for a big week of Big Tech earnings. The rapid run-up in chip stocks has reignited the AI trade as the S&P 500 and Nasdaq sit at record highs. Americans are feeling less confident about their retirement savings. Here are some of the best ways to get started early. The US secretary of transportation, Sean Duffy, has announced a series of measures to help Spirit Airlines passengers following the low-cost airline’s collapse early on Saturday after running out of cash and the failure of rescue talks with theTrump administration. Duffy said that larger US airlines, including United, Delta, JetBlue and Southwest, had agreed to cap ticket prices specifically for Spirit customers who need to rebook canceled flights, subject to a Spirit flight confirmation number and proof of payment. American Airlines and Delta Air Lines would also offer reduced fares on high-volume Spirit routes, and ultra-low-cost carrier Allegiant has committed to freezing fares across routes that overlap with the failed carrier. A third airline, Frontier, would offer a 50% base-fare reduction to affected travelers, it was announced. Duffy also said ina statement on Xthat most major US carriers will extend travel pass benefits and spare seats to Spirit pilots, flight attendants and other employees who need to return home after being stranded by the company’s collapse. Spirit once operated hundreds of daily flights on its bright yellow planes and employed about 17,000 people, but early on Saturday it announced that after 34 years in business it had “with great disappointment … started an orderly wind-down of our operations, effective immediately”. “To our guests: all flights have been canceled, and customer service is no longer available,”the airline said. “We are proud of the impact of our ultra-low-cost model on the industry over the last 34 years and had hoped to serve our guests for many years to come,” the announcement continued. Related:California’s jet fuel supply drops to three-year low as Middle East turmoil squeezes global oil market The company had struggled to make a deal with its creditors and secure funding to maintain operations after shuttling in and out of bankruptcy twice in recent years. But the sharp rise in jet fuel prices since the start of theUS-Israel war on Iraneffectively sealed the fate of the airline. The Trump administration floated taking a 90% stake to prevent Spirit’s collapse but the company’s bondholders rebelled. Duffy said that Spirit employees would be offered preferential employment interviews, and that American and United would launch websites to ease that process. Spirit employed about 2,000 pilots and 5,000 cabin crew. The International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers (IAM) said in a statement that Spirit’s collapse was “devastating for the thousands of airline workers” and blamed it on “corporate mismanagement and poor financial stewardship”. “We call on Spirit’s leadership and the bankruptcy court to ensure that every worker receives the full severance, back pay, and benefits they are owed,” the major labor union said. “Workers should not be the last in line when a company fails.” Duffy predicted Saturday that “after today we are going to see a stronger competitive market in our airline industry” and said he did not think the government needs to bail out other low-cost airlines that have in total sought $2.5bn in government relief because of high jet fuel prices. “I would say that at this point, I don’t think it’s necessary. They do have access to cash. If they want to come to the US government, we would be a lender of last resort. If they can find dollars in the private markets – I think that’s better for them,” Duffy said at a press conference at Newark airport in New Jersey. According to the Wall Street Journal, the decision to let Spirit collapse came during a 15-minute phone call between commerce secretary Howard Lutnick and Spirit CEO Dave Davis when they agreed that the ultra-low-cost carrier had run out of rescue alternatives. Efforts to find a buyer included reaching out to rival JetBlue, which had a $3.8bn merger with Spirit blocked in 2022 on antitrust grounds, and American Airlines. Both failed. A plan to use the Defense Production Act to mobilize private industry to support Spirit under the guise of national defense also stumbled. The failed airline will process refunds for any flight purchased through via credit or debit card, and existing ticket holders can also contact their credit card issuers for refunds under the Fair Credit Billing Act, or their flight insurance providers or the airline’s bankruptcy court. After earlier reports that Spirit was close to liquidation, the Trump administration said it wasworking out a dealto keep the carrier afloat, including a potential $500m loan from the federal government. But the moves ultimately came to nought. Donald Trump said last week he was aware the company had been struggling and the US president suggested the federal government could buy out the carrier. On Friday, he told reporters an announcement could come later Friday or Saturday. “We gave them a final proposal,” the president said. “We’re looking at it, but if we can’t make a good deal – no institution’s been able to do it. I said I’d like to save the jobs.” Related:What’s going on with Spirit Airlines and could the White House bail them out? A creditor close to the deal said: “The Trump administration made an extraordinary effort to try and save Spirit, but you can’t breathe life into a corpse. Given that, the company should make its intentions clear for the sake of its customers and employees.” Spirit’s woes predated the war in Iran, as the company had struggled to increase demand for its services since theCovid-19 pandemic. A group of other budget carriers, including Frontier and Avelo, reportedly pitched a$2.5bn bailoutto the Trump administration last week, arguing they had been disproportionately affected by higher fuel prices. Budget airlines offer consumers low base-level fares but typically add on hefty fees for services such as carry-on bags and seat selection. Founded in 1983 as Charter One Airlines, Florida-headquartered Spirit operated throughout the US, Latin America and the Caribbean. Reuters contributed reporting Weʼre unable to load stories right now. Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Sign in to access your portfolio