Title: Kirby Q1 Earnings Beat Estimates, Revenues Increase Y/Y
Date: 2026-05-04 17:32
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/kirby-q1-earnings-beat-estimates-173200737.html?.tsrc=rss

Oops, something went wrong Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Spirit Airlines is gone. Here are the low-cost airlines filling the gap. Court documents show Musk warned OpenAI execs they would become 'the most hated men in America' days before the trial began Palantir beats earnings expectations, with revenue rising 85% on booming US business Dow, S&P 500, Nasdaq drop, oil surges as Middle East attacks escalate GameStop’s CEO dodged questions on funding the deal, leaving investors uneasy Dow sags while S&P 500, Nasdaq waver as Hormuz tensions rise Why trade deficits under Trump are so difficult to understand (and so easy to spin) Buying record highs looks riskier in the Nasdaq and Russell 2000 than in the broader market Would a gas tax holiday lower prices? What drivers should know. Wall Street sees more market gains as strong earnings fuel the AI trade The April jobs report and more major first quarter results await investors this week. April added roughly $1.2 trillion to Alphabet’s market value, or just over 50 times Google’s IPO valuation. Toto Wolff on Mercedes F1's dominant start, the 'outstanding' Kimi Antonelli, and why vulnerability is a leader's 'superpower' The average cost of college in 2026 (and how to pay for it) Network shakeups hit Medicare Advantage, forcing retirees to pay up or find new care Jerome Powell's Fed years were an everything rally The Iran War almost upended spring homebuying, but so far the market is showing 'surprising resilience' Berkshire Hathaway's profits double as shareholders gather for the annual meeting in Omaha (Associated Press) Bankrupt carrier Spirit Airlines ceased operations Saturday, the industry's first closure linked to the Iran war. If Spirit Airlines shuts down, travel chaos could ramp up. Here's how to protect your summer travel plans. The S&P 500 and Nasdaq jumped to record highs as the AI trade fueled a tech rally The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq advanced after hitting record highs as earnings rolled in Apple's earnings beat is part of an amazing trend AI developers are snapping up Mac minis, sparking a shortage that could drag on for months Apple beats earnings estimates on strong iPhone and China sales Dow jumps 750 points, S&P 500 and Nasdaq notch record highs to end the best month for stocks since 2020 The AI earnings bonanza is splitting investors Trump bets Hormuz blockade will break Iran before triggering a global crisis US stocks climb as economic updates, solid earnings roll in and Big Techs buoy AI hopes Nvidia has powered one third of the Mag 7's bull market gains Results from four Big Tech companies showed combined AI spending reaching an eye-popping $725 billion this year. Microsoft tops earnings estimates, says AI business up 123% year over year Meta stock falls despite earnings beat as AI spending plans spook investors Alphabet earnings top estimates on strong Google Cloud growth The Dow and S&P 500 slipped as oil surged, with Big Tech earnings on deck Powell will stay on as governor, says he has no choice amid legal attacks on Fed Powell holds what is expected to be his final press conference as chair after the Fed keeps rates steady Fed holds interest rates steady with no end to Iran war in sight Elon Musk testified again in the OpenAI trial, describing his behavior at the company and its nonprofit 'halo' A Senate committee confirmed Kevin Warsh, sending his nomination to be chairman of the Fed to the full Senate Stocks slipped at the open as investors awaited a Fed decision and Big Tech earnings The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq dropped as chip stocks sank and oil rose S&P 500 and Nasdaq sink, Dow rises as OpenAI-linked stocks falter and UAE exits OPEC The United Arab Emirates will leave OPEC+ effective May 1 The only number that matters for 'Magnificent 7' earnings this week The S&P 500 and Nasdaq notched fresh records, while oil edged higher as markets weighed Iran peace odds Gasoline prices are expected to turn higher as oil holds above $100 per barrel amid uncertainty over the US-Iran war US stocks open mixed as markets brace for a big week of Big Tech earnings. The rapid run-up in chip stocks has reignited the AI trade as the S&P 500 and Nasdaq sit at record highs. Americans are feeling less confident about their retirement savings. Here are some of the best ways to get started early. Kirby CorporationKEX reported first-quarter 2026 earnings of $1.50 per share, which beat the Zacks Consensus Estimate by 6.4% and improved 12.8% year over year. Total revenues of $844.1 million beat the Zacks Consensus Estimate of $842 million and improved 7.4% year over year. Kirby Corporation price-consensus-eps-surprise-chart | Kirby Corporation Quote The company operates via two segments: marine transportation and distribution and services. Marine transportation revenues for the first quarter of 2026 were $497.2 million, up 4.4% year over year. Operating income for the first quarter rose to $89.7 million from $86.6 million in the year-ago quarter. Segment operating margin for the first quarter of 2026 was 18% compared with 18.2% for first-quarter 2025 actuals. Inland, first-quarter barge utilization was sequentially in the low-90% range. Operating conditions were mostly unfavorable in the quarter, with a 25% sequential increase in delay days, driven by the onset of seasonal winter weather. Average spot market rates increased in the low-single-digits sequentially, and term contracts that renewed in the first quarter were flat to slightly up on average compared to a year ago. Revenues in the inland market were flat year over year, and operating margins were in the high-teens range. The inland market accounted for 79% of segment revenues in the first quarter of 2026. In coastal markets, conditions were strong, with barge utilization in the mid-to-high-90% range. Term contracts that were renewed during the quarter increased in the 20% range on average compared to a year ago. Revenues in the coastal market were up 23% year over year and accounted for 21% of segment revenues. The coastal business operating margin was in the high-teens range, reflecting favorable utilization and pricing. Distribution and services revenues for the first quarter of 2026 were $346.9 million, up 12.1% year over year. Operating income for the reported quarter totaled $23.3 million compared with $22.6 million in the year-ago quarter. Operating margin declined to 6.7% for the first quarter from 7.3% in the year-ago quarter. In the power generation market, first-quarter revenues and operating income increased 45% and 39%, respectively, year over year, driven by strong underlying demand and solid execution despite ongoing OEM-related supply constraints. Order activity remained robust, supported by continued growth in sales for behind-the-meter prime power and backup solutions across data center and industrial customers. Overall, power generation revenues accounted for 44% of segment revenues. Power generation operating margins were in the mid-single-digit range. In the commercial and industrial market, first-quarter revenues were up 1% year over year, and operating income increased 3% compared to first-quarter 2025, as higher business levels in marine repair were offset by lower activity in on-highway repair. Commercial and industrial accounted for 46% of segment revenues, and operating margins were in the high single digits. In the oil and gas market, first-quarter revenues and operating income results declined year over year. Revenues and operating income decreased 25% and 53%, respectively, year over year compared to first-quarter 2025, due to lower levels of conventional oilfield activity, which resulted in decreased demand for new transmissions and parts, partially offset by e-frac equipment. Oil and gas revenues represented approximately 10% of segment revenues for the quarter, with operating margins in the mid-single-digit range. As of March 31, 2026, Kirby had cash and cash equivalents of $78.77 million compared with $47.02 million at the end of the prior quarter. During the reported quarter, KEX generated $312.2 million of net cash from operating activities, and capital expenditures were $47 million. Kirby repurchased 1,030,729 shares at an average price of $98.53 for $101.6 million. For 2026, Kirby anticipates delivering consistent year-over-year earnings growth. It has increased the full-year 2026 earnings per share growth outlook to 5-15%, up from the prior guidance of 0-12%. Kirby anticipates generating $575-$675 million of net cash provided by operating activities in 2026. Capital spending is expected to range from $220-$260 million. Approximately $170-$210 million is expected to be allocated to marine maintenance capital and improvements to existing inland and coastal marine equipment, and facility improvements. Up to approximately $65 million is expected to be allocated to growth capital spending across both of our businesses. Currently, Kirby carries a Zacks Rank #3 (Hold). You can seethe complete list of today’s Zacks #1 Rank (Strong Buy) stocks here. Delta Air LinesDAL reported first-quarter 2026 earnings (excluding $1.08 from non-recurring items) of 64 cents per share, which beat the Zacks Consensus Estimate of 61 cents. Earnings increased 39.1% on a year-over-year basis. Revenues in the March-end quarter were $14.2 billion, beating the Zacks Consensus Estimate of $14 billion and increasing on a year-over-year basis. J.B. Hunt Transport ServicesJBHT posted first-quarter 2026 earnings per share of $1.49, up 27% from $1.17 a year ago. The result topped the Zacks Consensus Estimate by $0.04, reflecting a 2.8% surprise. Operating revenues totaled $3.06 billion, rising 4.6% year over year. Revenues beat the consensus mark of $2.94 billion, resulting in a 3.9% surprise, as demand proved resilient across several service offerings, led by Intermodal volume growth and higher revenues per load in select highway-related businesses. Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days.Click to get this free report Delta Air Lines, Inc. (DAL) : Free Stock Analysis Report J.B. Hunt Transport Services, Inc. (JBHT) : Free Stock Analysis Report Kirby Corporation (KEX) : Free Stock Analysis Report This article originally published on Zacks Investment Research (zacks.com). Zacks Investment Research Weʼre unable to load stories right now. Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Sign in to access your portfolio