Title: Johnson & Johnson’s (JNJ) Accelerating Growth Justifies the Higher Multiple
Date: 2026-05-04 11:55
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/sectors/healthcare/articles/johnson-johnson-jnj-accelerating-growth-115520139.html?.tsrc=rss

Oops, something went wrong Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Spirit Airlines is gone. Here are the low-cost airlines filling the gap. Court documents show Musk warned OpenAI execs they would become 'the most hated men in America' days before the trial began Palantir beats earnings expectations, with revenue rising 85% on booming US business Dow, S&P 500, Nasdaq drop, oil surges as Middle East attacks escalate GameStop’s CEO dodged questions on funding the deal, leaving investors uneasy Dow sags while S&P 500, Nasdaq waver as Hormuz tensions rise Why trade deficits under Trump are so difficult to understand (and so easy to spin) Buying record highs looks riskier in the Nasdaq and Russell 2000 than in the broader market Would a gas tax holiday lower prices? What drivers should know. Wall Street sees more market gains as strong earnings fuel the AI trade The April jobs report and more major first quarter results await investors this week. April added roughly $1.2 trillion to Alphabet’s market value, or just over 50 times Google’s IPO valuation. Toto Wolff on Mercedes F1's dominant start, the 'outstanding' Kimi Antonelli, and why vulnerability is a leader's 'superpower' The average cost of college in 2026 (and how to pay for it) Network shakeups hit Medicare Advantage, forcing retirees to pay up or find new care Jerome Powell's Fed years were an everything rally The Iran War almost upended spring homebuying, but so far the market is showing 'surprising resilience' Berkshire Hathaway's profits double as shareholders gather for the annual meeting in Omaha (Associated Press) Bankrupt carrier Spirit Airlines ceased operations Saturday, the industry's first closure linked to the Iran war. If Spirit Airlines shuts down, travel chaos could ramp up. Here's how to protect your summer travel plans. The S&P 500 and Nasdaq jumped to record highs as the AI trade fueled a tech rally The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq advanced after hitting record highs as earnings rolled in Apple's earnings beat is part of an amazing trend AI developers are snapping up Mac minis, sparking a shortage that could drag on for months Apple beats earnings estimates on strong iPhone and China sales Dow jumps 750 points, S&P 500 and Nasdaq notch record highs to end the best month for stocks since 2020 The AI earnings bonanza is splitting investors Trump bets Hormuz blockade will break Iran before triggering a global crisis US stocks climb as economic updates, solid earnings roll in and Big Techs buoy AI hopes Nvidia has powered one third of the Mag 7's bull market gains Results from four Big Tech companies showed combined AI spending reaching an eye-popping $725 billion this year. Microsoft tops earnings estimates, says AI business up 123% year over year Meta stock falls despite earnings beat as AI spending plans spook investors Alphabet earnings top estimates on strong Google Cloud growth The Dow and S&P 500 slipped as oil surged, with Big Tech earnings on deck Powell will stay on as governor, says he has no choice amid legal attacks on Fed Powell holds what is expected to be his final press conference as chair after the Fed keeps rates steady Fed holds interest rates steady with no end to Iran war in sight Elon Musk testified again in the OpenAI trial, describing his behavior at the company and its nonprofit 'halo' A Senate committee confirmed Kevin Warsh, sending his nomination to be chairman of the Fed to the full Senate Stocks slipped at the open as investors awaited a Fed decision and Big Tech earnings The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq dropped as chip stocks sank and oil rose S&P 500 and Nasdaq sink, Dow rises as OpenAI-linked stocks falter and UAE exits OPEC The United Arab Emirates will leave OPEC+ effective May 1 The only number that matters for 'Magnificent 7' earnings this week The S&P 500 and Nasdaq notched fresh records, while oil edged higher as markets weighed Iran peace odds Gasoline prices are expected to turn higher as oil holds above $100 per barrel amid uncertainty over the US-Iran war US stocks open mixed as markets brace for a big week of Big Tech earnings. The rapid run-up in chip stocks has reignited the AI trade as the S&P 500 and Nasdaq sit at record highs. Americans are feeling less confident about their retirement savings. Here are some of the best ways to get started early. Baron Capital, an investment management company, released its Q1 2026 investor letter for the “Baron Health Care Fund”. A copy of the letter is available todownload here. Baron Health Care Fund (the Fund) declined 6.97% (Institutional Shares) in the quarter, compared to the 4.88% decline for the Russell 3000 Health Care Index (the Benchmark) and the 3.96% decline for the Russell 3000 Index (the Index). The Fund appreciated 9.39% on an annualized basis since its inception, compared to the 8.97% gain for the Benchmark and the 13.26% gain for the Index. The disappointing stock selection drove the Fund’s underperformance in the quarter. Despite recent challenges, the Fund believes the long-term outlook for health care remains positive due to factors including an aging population, rising chronic disease rates, advances in biotechnology, and increased health care spending. In addition, please check the Fund’s top five holdings to know its best picks in 2026. In its first-quarter 2026 investor letter, Baron Health Care Fund highlighted stocks like Johnson & Johnson (NYSE:JNJ). Johnson & Johnson (NYSE:JNJ) is a leading global healthcare company that engages in the research and development, manufacture, and sale of a range of products in the healthcare field. On May 1, 2026, Johnson & Johnson (NYSE:JNJ) closed at $227.19 per share. One-month return of Johnson & Johnson (NYSE:JNJ) was -5.72%, and its shares gained 46.57% over the past 52 weeks. Johnson & Johnson (NYSE:JNJ) has a market capitalization of $546.9 billion. Baron Health Care Fund stated the following regarding Johnson & Johnson (NYSE:JNJ) in its Q1 2026 investor letter: "We increased the position inJohnson & Johnson(NYSE:JNJ), a large cap health care company with two segments, Innovative Medicine and MedTech. J&J has been actively optimizing its portfolio, separating and spinning off lower-growth and less attractive businesses and investing in higher growth, innovative businesses. This has led to a portfolio of businesses with accelerating growth, which we think justifies a higher multiple. For example, J&J spun off its consumer health business (along with talc-related liabilities) in 2023 into a new, independent company named Kenvue, and in October 2025, J&J announced plans to separate its orthopedics business into a new, independent entity named Depuy Synthes. J&J is now focused on the Innovative Medicine segments (focused on oncology, immunology, and neuroscience) and a growth MedTech business (focused on cardiology, robotic surgery, and vision). Management guidance for 2026 operational sales growth is roughly 6%, and could accelerate to double-digit revenue growth by the end of this decade. In the Innovative Medicine segment, key growth drivers include (among others): Tremfya, an injectable biologic treatment for patients with plaque psoriasis, psoriatic arthritis, Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis; Icotyde, a once daily oral peptide tablet recently approved for plaque psoriasis and being studied in psoriatic arthritis, ulcerative colitis and Crohn’s disease; Caplyta, a medication used to treat schizophrenia or along with an antidepressant to treat major depressive disorder, bipolar depression; Spravato, a nasal spray used along with an oral antidepressant to treat adults with treatment-resistant depression and major depressive disorder; Darzalex, a treatment for multiple myeloma, Tecvayli and Talvey, bispecific antibodies for adults with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma; and Rybrevant, a bispecific antibody for adults with EGFR-mutated non-small cell lung cancer. In the MedTech segment, J&J has a strong cardiology franchise growing double digits. In the surgery business, J&J plans to be a player in robotic surgery and filed for FDA approval of its soft tissue robot called OTTAVA. In the vision business, J&J is a leader in contact lenses, which is a steady growth business with demographic tailwinds. J&J is one of only two companies in the U.S. with a AAA credit rating (the other being Microsoft). In addition, J&J generates over $20 billion of free cash flow per year which allows the company to reinvest in the business and return value to shareholders. Although valuation has expanded in recent months due to strong execution, we believe the company’s accelerating growth outlook justifies a higher multiple for the business." Johnson & Johnson (NYSE:JNJ) is not on our list of40 Most Popular Stocks Among Hedge Funds Heading Into 2026. According to our database, 104 hedge fund portfolios held Johnson & Johnson (NYSE:JNJ) at the end of the fourth quarter, up from 103 in the previous quarter. While we acknowledge the potential of Johnson & Johnson (NYSE:JNJ) as an investment, we believe certain AI stocks offer greater upside potential and carry less downside risk. If you're looking for an extremely undervalued AI stock that also stands to benefit significantly from Trump-era tariffs and the onshoring trend, see our free report on thebest short-term AI stock. Inanother article, we covered Johnson & Johnson (NYSE:JNJ) and shared the list of stocks Jim Cramer discussed. In addition, please check out ourhedge fund investor letters Q1 2026page for more investor letters from hedge funds and other leading investors. READ NEXT:33 Stocks That Should Double in 3 Yearsand15 Stocks That Will Make You Rich in 10 Years. Disclosure: None. This article is originally published at Insider Monkey. Weʼre unable to load stories right now. Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Sign in to access your portfolio