Title: Why Amazon Stock Just Popped
Date: 2026-04-14 19:18
URL: https://www.fool.com/investing/2026/04/14/why-amazon-stock-just-popped/?.tsrc=rss

Investors love the idea of Amazon powering Apple's DTC iPhones. Amazon.com(AMZN+3.83%)is buyingGlobalstar(GSAT+9.63%)for $11.6 billion, as announced this morning. In response to the news, Amazon stock is up 4%, Globalstar is up 9.3%... andApple(AAPL0.17%)stock is down 0.3%, all as of 2:40 p.m. ET. Image source: Getty Images. Globalstar is thesatellite communications companythat helps Apple provide direct-to-cell communications servicesvia its iPhones and Apple Watches. Investors in Apple may wonder whether it's really a good idea for Apple to suddenly depend upon a $2.7 trillion tech giant (almostas much as Apple's own $3.8 trillion market cap) providing its DTC service, rather than on a tiny $10 billion company, like Globalstar, that it could more easily push around. Amazon and especially Globalstar investors, on the other hand, seem ecstatic. Our experts' top-rated cash back card just got even better. For a limited time, earn a $250 bonus after spending just $500 in the first 3 months. Plus, earn unlimited cash back and pay 0% intro APR until well into 2027. Don't wait — this offer ends soon. And no wonder! Amazon is anteing up the equivalent of $90 a share for Globalstar, payable in cash or stock. The company is paying a 23% premium over what Globalstar shares were worth as recently as yesterday. And regulators permitting, this deal should close in 2027. When our analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all,Stock Advisor’stotal average return is975%*— a market-crushing outperformance compared to193%for the S&P 500. They just revealed what they believe are the10 best stocksfor investors to buy right now,available when you joinStock Advisor. *Stock Advisor returns as of April 14, 2026. From Amazon's perspective, the deal is also good news. For one thing, Amazon is acquiring Globalstar's roughly two dozen satellites, instantly increasing the size of its own Amazon Leo satellite constellation by about 10%. For another, it's inheriting Globalstar's DTC capabilities for its network instantly, and without having to take the time and incur the expense of developing this technology on its own. Does the deal instantly transform Amazon Leo into a viable competitor toSpaceXandStarlink? No. SpaceX's satellite internet business is already profitable, and its Starlink fleet numbers more than 10,000 satellites. But it's a step in the right direction for Amazon. Nvidia’s CEO just revealed that one breakthrough could create more millionaires in the next five years than the internet did in two decades. Amazon’s Jeff Bezos says it is “hard to overstate the impact.” And Cathie Wood projects AI could be an $80 trillion opportunity by 2030. That is theequivalent of 18 Nvidias, 29 Microsofts, or 35 Amazons. But here’s what most investors miss: almost all that growth runs through a single choke point. One little-known company, called an “Indispensable Monopoly,” provides the critical technology Nvidia, AMD, and Intel cannot function without. And it is still just a fraction of Nvidia’s size. We just released a brand-new report with the full story and the company’s name. Continue › Rich Smithhas no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Amazon and Apple and is short shares of Apple. The Motley Fool has adisclosure policy. This tech could reach $80 trillion. Imagine a technology worth over18 Nvidias. What in the world could be worth 18 Nvidias? The answer is a radical tech breakthrough that our experts think is transforming every walk of life. And this giant leap forward has many on Wall Street very excited. Continue ›  *Average returns of all recommendations since inception. Cost basis and return based on previous market day close. Our experts' top-rated cash back card just got even better. For a limited time, earn a $250 bonus after spending just $500 in the first 3 months. Plus, earn unlimited cash back and pay 0% intro APR until well into 2027. Don't wait — this offer ends soon. Invest better with The Motley Fool. Get stock recommendations, portfolio guidance, and more from The Motley Fool's premium services. Making the world smarter, happier, and richer. ©1995-2026The Motley Fool. All rights reserved. Market data powered byXigniteandPolygon.io. About The Motley Fool Our Services Around the Globe Free Tools Affiliates & Friends