Title: Labour’s ‘sovereign’ AI fund backs American company
Date: 2026-05-04 16:37
URL: https://uk.finance.yahoo.com/news/labour-sovereign-ai-fund-backs-163708806.html?.tsrc=rss

Something went wrong Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results ⚡️ Stocks tick higher 📈 as hopes rise for US-Iran peace deal ⚡️ ⚡️ Stocks fall 📉 after US-Iran peace talks collapse ⚡️ ⚡️ Stocks edge higher 📈 as investors eye US-Iran peace talks ⚡️ ⚡️Stocks rally 📈 after US and Iran agree two-week ceasefire ⚡️ ⚡️ Stocks waver as Trump's Iran 🇮🇷 deadline looms ⚡️ A £500m AI fund set up to back “home-grown” technology has handed funding to a start-up based in Silicon Valley. Labour’s Sovereign AI Fund has issued credits for computing power to Odyssey ML,a start-updeveloping so-called “world models” that can understand the physical environment. The company is incorporated in the US and headquartered in Menlo Park, the home of Facebook owner Meta. While some senior members of its team are based in London – including Jeff Hawke, the chief technology officer and co-founder – Oliver Cameron, Odyssey’s co-founder and chief executive, is based in Palo Alto. Odyssey ML’s hiring page shows only some of its jobs are open to people based in London, though all of its roles are open to candidates based in California. The Government’s decision to back a US-headquartered company through the Sovereign AI Fund drew criticism given Labour’s promise to use the money pot to support British businesses. It has been billed by Labour as a means to encourage entrepreneurs to “bring their ideas to life in the UK and grow them here to maximum success”. Government press releases have said it was set up to back “home-grown AI capacityand capabilities”. Ed Newton-Rex, a former AI executive and founder of the non-profit Fairly Trained, said: “If the Government insists on diverting public money to private AI companies, it should at least only fund firms that are resolutely British. “Otherwise we may as well cut out the middleman and hand the purse strings straight to the Silicon Valley tech bros.” The Sovereign AI Fund has taken a direct stake in two British start-ups:Ineffable Intelligence, an AI lab, and Callosum, a chip business. It also offers credits that allow start-ups to access the UK’s supercomputing facilities: Dawn in Cambridge and Isambard in Bristol. According to its website, these credits are open to “high-potential UK startups” but it caveats this by saying companies conducting “substantive AI research and development activity” are also eligible. Two other start-ups that received the credits had UK operations but were ultimately owned by holding companies incorporated in the US. There is no requirement for founders who get computing funding from the Sovereign AI Fund to base themselves in Britain or keep their companies here. Kanishka Narayan, the UK’s AI minister, told The Telegraph last month that the fund intended to “keep companies more and more anchored in the UK”, although he said there were no plans to include “strict conditionality” on investments, such as committing to a UK headquarters. A Government spokesman said: “The UK has the third largest AI market in the world and is home to more AI startups than anywhere else in Europe. Through Sovereign AI we are going even further to make sure the next wave of AI breakthroughs are built here in the UK, so the benefits stay on our shores. “All of the companies Sovereign AI supports have a meaningful presence here in the UK and are set to create jobs and contribute to the economy here.” Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Sign in to access your portfolio