Title: Can Strong Data Center Revenues Boost AMD's Topline in Q1 Earnings?
Date: 2026-05-04 18:03
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/strong-data-center-revenues-boost-180300113.html?.tsrc=rss

Oops, something went wrong Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Spirit Airlines is gone. Here are the low-cost airlines filling the gap. Court documents show Musk warned OpenAI execs they would become 'the most hated men in America' days before the trial began Palantir beats earnings expectations, with revenue rising 85% on booming US business Dow, S&P 500, Nasdaq drop, oil surges as Middle East attacks escalate GameStop’s CEO dodged questions on funding the deal, leaving investors uneasy Dow sags while S&P 500, Nasdaq waver as Hormuz tensions rise Why trade deficits under Trump are so difficult to understand (and so easy to spin) Buying record highs looks riskier in the Nasdaq and Russell 2000 than in the broader market Would a gas tax holiday lower prices? What drivers should know. Wall Street sees more market gains as strong earnings fuel the AI trade The April jobs report and more major first quarter results await investors this week. April added roughly $1.2 trillion to Alphabet’s market value, or just over 50 times Google’s IPO valuation. Toto Wolff on Mercedes F1's dominant start, the 'outstanding' Kimi Antonelli, and why vulnerability is a leader's 'superpower' The average cost of college in 2026 (and how to pay for it) Network shakeups hit Medicare Advantage, forcing retirees to pay up or find new care Jerome Powell's Fed years were an everything rally The Iran War almost upended spring homebuying, but so far the market is showing 'surprising resilience' Berkshire Hathaway's profits double as shareholders gather for the annual meeting in Omaha (Associated Press) Bankrupt carrier Spirit Airlines ceased operations Saturday, the industry's first closure linked to the Iran war. If Spirit Airlines shuts down, travel chaos could ramp up. Here's how to protect your summer travel plans. The S&P 500 and Nasdaq jumped to record highs as the AI trade fueled a tech rally The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq advanced after hitting record highs as earnings rolled in Apple's earnings beat is part of an amazing trend AI developers are snapping up Mac minis, sparking a shortage that could drag on for months Apple beats earnings estimates on strong iPhone and China sales Dow jumps 750 points, S&P 500 and Nasdaq notch record highs to end the best month for stocks since 2020 The AI earnings bonanza is splitting investors Trump bets Hormuz blockade will break Iran before triggering a global crisis US stocks climb as economic updates, solid earnings roll in and Big Techs buoy AI hopes Nvidia has powered one third of the Mag 7's bull market gains Results from four Big Tech companies showed combined AI spending reaching an eye-popping $725 billion this year. Microsoft tops earnings estimates, says AI business up 123% year over year Meta stock falls despite earnings beat as AI spending plans spook investors Alphabet earnings top estimates on strong Google Cloud growth The Dow and S&P 500 slipped as oil surged, with Big Tech earnings on deck Powell will stay on as governor, says he has no choice amid legal attacks on Fed Powell holds what is expected to be his final press conference as chair after the Fed keeps rates steady Fed holds interest rates steady with no end to Iran war in sight Elon Musk testified again in the OpenAI trial, describing his behavior at the company and its nonprofit 'halo' A Senate committee confirmed Kevin Warsh, sending his nomination to be chairman of the Fed to the full Senate Stocks slipped at the open as investors awaited a Fed decision and Big Tech earnings The Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq dropped as chip stocks sank and oil rose S&P 500 and Nasdaq sink, Dow rises as OpenAI-linked stocks falter and UAE exits OPEC The United Arab Emirates will leave OPEC+ effective May 1 The only number that matters for 'Magnificent 7' earnings this week The S&P 500 and Nasdaq notched fresh records, while oil edged higher as markets weighed Iran peace odds Gasoline prices are expected to turn higher as oil holds above $100 per barrel amid uncertainty over the US-Iran war US stocks open mixed as markets brace for a big week of Big Tech earnings. The rapid run-up in chip stocks has reignited the AI trade as the S&P 500 and Nasdaq sit at record highs. Americans are feeling less confident about their retirement savings. Here are some of the best ways to get started early. Advanced Micro DevicesAMD is expected to have benefited from strong Data Center revenues in the first quarter of 2026. The company is set to release results on May 5, 2026.The company continues to strengthen its footprint in the enterprise data center arena by leveraging EPYC processors and Instinct accelerators amid significant competition fromNVIDIANVDA andBroadcomAVGO. Hyperscalers and enterprise customers are expanding their infrastructure to meet the growing needs of cloud services and AI workloads, making EPYC CPUs the processor of choice for modern data centers. For the first quarter of 2026, AMD expects the Data Center segment revenue to be up sequentially, even as other segments experience seasonal declines.Click here to know how AMD’s overall first-quarter performance is likely to be. In the enterprise, AMD’s EPYC has been gaining traction with an expanding clientele in technology, automotive, manufacturing, financial services and public sector domains. In the fourth quarter of 2025, Data Center revenues increased 39.4% year over year to $5.38 billion and accounted for 52.4% of total revenues. Sequentially, revenues climbed 23.9% year over year. Strong demand for fifth-gen EPYC processors and Instinct MI350 series GPUs drove top-line growth. Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. revenue-ttm | Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Quote The adoption of EPYC by the largest cloud hyperscalers has been increasing significantly. Hyperscalers launched more than 230 EPYC-powered instances in the reported quarter, including new Turin offerings from Google, Microsoft Azure, Alibaba and others. More than 1,600 public EPYC cloud instances are now available globally, up roughly 50% year over year. This broad adoption is expected to have continued into the first quarter of 2026, supported by increased supply capacity and strong customer demand.AMD's Instinct GPU business is also expected to have contributed significantly, with the MI350 Series ramping up and broadening adoption among leading AI companies. The company anticipates approximately $100 million in MI308 GPU sales to China in the to-be-reported quarter.AMD’s to-be-reported quarter’s Data Center results are also expected to benefit from a rich partner base that includes the likes ofMeta PlatformsMETA, OpenAI, Cohere, IBM, Oracle, Google, Hewlett Packard Enterprise, Dell Technologies, Lenovo, Super Micro, and others. In February 2026, AMD announced a 6-gigawatt deal with Meta Platforms that involves the MI450 series. The first deployment will see Meta Platforms’ use of custom MI450, along with 6th-generation EPYC CPUs, codenamed “Venice,” running on ROCm software and built on the AMD Helios rack-scale architecture.The Zacks Consensus Estimate for first-quarter Data Center revenues is pegged at $5.56 billion, indicating impressive year-over-year growth of 51.5%. NVIDIA is benefiting from the strong growth of AI and high-performance, accelerated computing. The company’s newer Hopper and Blackwell GPU platforms are being rapidly adopted as customers work to grow their AI infrastructure.Broadcom is benefiting from strong demand for its networking products and custom AI accelerators. Broadcom expects a positive second-quarter fiscal 2026 performance, with AI revenues expected to surge 140% year over year to $10.7 billion, driven by strong demand for custom AI accelerators. AI networking is expected to accelerate in the second quarter of fiscal 2026 and grow to 40% of total AI revenues. AMD currently has a Zacks Rank #2 (Buy). You can seethe complete list of today’s Zacks #1 Rank (Strong Buy) stocks here. Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days.Click to get this free report Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (AMD) : Free Stock Analysis Report NVIDIA Corporation (NVDA) : Free Stock Analysis Report Broadcom Inc. (AVGO) : Free Stock Analysis Report Meta Platforms, Inc. (META) : Free Stock Analysis Report This article originally published on Zacks Investment Research (zacks.com). Zacks Investment Research Weʼre unable to load stories right now. Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant results Sign in to access your portfolio