Title: Meta's Revenue Growth Is Impressive, but This Remains a Big Problem
Date: 2026-05-04 19:50
URL: https://www.fool.com/investing/2026/05/04/metas-revenue-growth-is-impressive-but-this-remain/?.tsrc=rss

The company recently hiked its capex guidance for the year. Meta Platforms(META+0.28%)is a social media giant and one of the most valuable companies in the world, with a market cap of around $1.5 trillion. When it reports earnings, as it did recently, expectations are high. Not only does the company need to show growth, but investors need to be convinced that it's on a strong path forward. While one half of that equation looks to be solid, with its financials looking strong and Meta's growth rate being fairly high, investors may be more concerned about how it will do in the long run, as it invests heavily in not only the metaverse but alsoartificial intelligence(AI). Image source: Getty Images. Meta released its latest quarterly results last week, on April 29. Its growth rate for the quarter ending March 31 was solid, coming in at 33%. But what likely spooked investors was that its guidance for capital expenditures, also known as just capex, would also be higher than previously projected. Now, the company expects capex for the year to be within a range of $125 billion and $145 billion. Previously, it was projected to be within $115 billion and $135 billion. The company blames the increase on "higher component pricing this year and, to a lesser extent, additional data center costs to support future year capacity." Investors have been concerned with high AI spend in the past, and news of those costs likely being higher than expected simply wasn't good news, which is why, despite the seemingly strong quarter, shares of Meta have fallen in recent days. This Card Just Received a Rare 5-Star Rating Our team of credit card pros don’t just recommend this card—they actually use it. Motley Fool Money calls it a top pick for a reason. Since the start of the year, Meta's stock has declined by 8%. While it's not at its 52-week low of $520.26 just yet, it is getting closer to that level; on Friday, it closed at just under $609. Currently, Meta's stock trades at aprice-to-earnings multipleof 22, which is a fair bit lower than theS&P 500's average earnings multiple of 26. Meta's stock is cheaper than it was several months ago, but you need to be aware of the risks and question marks surrounding the business. While it's doing extremely well these days and its growth is impressive, it may not always be that way, especially if it needs to change its business practices to improve child safety. Whether AI proves to be a huge growth opportunity or just another money pit like the metaverse is also a huge unknown. That's why I'd take a wait-and-see approach with the stock.     Before you buy stock inMeta Platforms, consider this: The Motley FoolStock Advisoranalyst team just identified what they believe are the10 best stocksfor investors to buy now… andMeta Platformswasn’t one of them. The 10 stocks that made the cut could produce monster returns in the coming years. Consider whenNetflixmade this list on December 17, 2004... if you invested $1,000 at the time of our recommendation,you’d have $496,473!*Or whenNvidiamade this list on April 15, 2005... if you invested $1,000 at the time of our recommendation,you’d have $1,216,605!* Now, it’s worth notingStock Advisor’s total average return is968% — a market-crushing outperformance compared to202%for the S&P 500. Don't miss the latest top 10 list, available withStock Advisor, and join an investing community built by individual investors for individual investors. See the 10 stocks › *Stock Advisor returns as of May 5, 2026.  David Jagielski, CPAhas no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has positions in and recommends Meta Platforms. The Motley Fool has adisclosure policy. This tech could reach $80 trillion. Imagine a technology worth over18 Nvidias. What in the world could be worth 18 Nvidias? The answer is a radical tech breakthrough that our experts think is transforming every walk of life. And this giant leap forward has many on Wall Street very excited. Continue ›  *Average returns of all recommendations since inception. Cost basis and return based on previous market day close. This Card Just Received a Rare 5-Star Rating Our team of credit card pros don’t just recommend this card—they actually use it. Motley Fool Money calls it a top pick for a reason. Invest better with The Motley Fool. Get stock recommendations, portfolio guidance, and more from The Motley Fool's premium services. Making the world smarter, happier, and richer. ©1995-2026The Motley Fool. All rights reserved. Market data powered byXigniteandPolygon.io. About The Motley Fool Our Services Around the Globe Free Tools Affiliates & Friends